





A defense of Michael Moore and "Bowling for Columbine" (Op-Ed)By Eloquence Wed Aug 13th, 2003 at 09:00:09 AM EST 

This is an open letter to David Hardy, author of Bowling for Columbine: Documentary or Fiction?, probably the most comprehensive among many rebuttals of the Oscar-winning documentary. Critics have now gone so far as to call for the revocation of the award. Their chances are small, however, as their arguments rely on polemic, exaggeration and misrepresentation -- in other words, on the same techniques which they accuse Moore of using. 
Dear David Hardy, 
It is fascinating to watch the organized character assassination of Michael Moore that has been going on in the United States since the release of his last documentary. In a time of simple-minded patriotism, loud, clear and dissenting voices like Mr. Moore's are perceived as disturbing and have to be silenced, partially through well funded public relations campaigns, partially through conservative "grass-roots" propaganda. Not surprisingly, much of the criticism of Moore's film is misguided or outright wrong, often vastly more inaccurate than Moore's work itself. 

Moore portrays the NRA as an unethical, dishonest organization; he sees the paranoia and fear in the United States as a primary cause of violence, and he does not see gun ownership itself as a problem. His documentary is full of subtle humor, jaw-dropping dialogue and dark contrasts. All in all, it is an accurate portrayal of America's gun and violence culture. It also raises questions about America's foreign policy of recent decades, questions which have been all but ignored by Moore's critics. 
On your webpage, you state that "Moore's resolution is questionable. After all, early in the movie he discards the possibility that playing violent video games and watching violent flicks can cause violence -- because Canadians like, and Japanese positively love, those. If violent movies and violent videogames cannot cause violence -- then how can newscasts about violence do so?" 
This is a faulty generalization. If, as Moore implies (although never states as fact), video games and violent movies are relatively harmless, it does not logically follow that all types of media presentation are harmless. There is a huge difference, for example, between playing a game like "Quake" and listening to a radio broadcast that tells you that your family will be killed unless you take action to kill others now. The latter is the kind of media propaganda that was used to unleash a genocide in Rwanda in 1994, which killed 800,000 people. Similarly, the main motivation for the crusades (beyond the promise of wealth) was that Christians were supposedly being slaughtered and had to be saved. 
Obviously, media propaganda can incite people to kill. Interactive fiction like video games, on the other hand, presents violence in a narrative context, which may very well desensitize participants to said violence, but no causative link has ever been proven. Moore's hypothesis (which apparently comes at least in part from the book "Culture of Fear" by Barry Glassner, also advertised on Moore's website) is that the constant bombardment with messages of fear can incite paranoia, which itself can lead to violent acts. This is consistent with the kind of media-incited violence described above, and in no relationship whatsoever to the theory of video game or music incited violence. It is no surprise, however, that US (and European) media do not question their own propaganda of fear. 
Moore's second hypothesis is that America's foreign policy may contribute to the belief that violence is an appropriate means to solve conflicts, a hypothesis which is shared by many sociologists and psychologists. Children who grow up in war-torn regions are known for having similar views -- war is perceived as a normal part of existence, violence as a natural way to solve disputes. In a weaker sense, the same message is projected to American children, who grow up being told that it is not acceptable to be violent to one another, but who simultaneously have to endure corporal punishment and media messages about how "the enemies of freedom" are punished. Moore's film was made before the dead bodies of Qusay and Uday Hussein were paraded on national TV. Americans were gloating over this demented corpse show: 
"They squealed like little piggies too, so you'll have to make do with 'oink, oink, squeeeeeeeallll' for their last words. That goes for your grandson Mustafa too, by the way. Still think fucking with the U.S. was a good idea, Sammy?" 
Mustafa was 14 years when he was killed. Americans cheer the killing of children, yet wonder why their own children grow up to be more violent than those in other nations. It is paradoxical notions like this one which Moore's film seeks to address. 
Inaccuracies 
Your webpage list a number of alleged inaccuracies in Moore's movies. It is true that Moore's film is sometimes unintentionally deceptive, but to call it fraudulent is hyperbole to the extreme. It is no more so than any other successful documentary of the last decades. Let's look at some specific criticisms: 
1) The bank scene, listed on your website on a separate page. Critics have stated that this scene was "staged", but in the bank interview, the official tells Moore that the bank has its own vault storing about 500 weapons at any given time. It is also a licensed firearms dealer which can perform its own background checks. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, linked from your site, an employee claims that the gun would have been "normally" picked up at another dealer. It is not explained what "normally" is supposed to mean, but that claim flatly contradicts the statement of the bank official in the film. This sounds more like a later correction for public relations purposes, but of course nobody questions the bank claims when they can be used against Moore. 
The only thing that Moore compressed is the timeframe. According to the same WSJ interview, "Typically, you're looking at a week to 10 days waiting period." This is plausible -- but entirely irrelevant for the movie, which already makes it quite clear that a background check is being performed. Moore's detractors have sometimes extended those 7-10 days to several weeks, contradicting the bank's own estimate. 
There is nothing inaccurate whatsoever about the bank scene. The bank does exactly what it advertises: It hands out guns from its vault to those who open an account. The silly criticisms of the scene obscure the real obscenity of the situation: a bank handing out guns to its customers, higlighting the utter laxness of how Americans deal with deadly weapons and a love of firearms that borders on the religious. 
2) The Lockheed-Martin interview. This is perhaps the criticism repeated the most often, and it also the most inaccurate. First, the actual quotes from the film are often reproduced incorrectly. The dialogue goes as follows: 
Moore: "So you don't think our kids say to themselves, gee, dad goes off to the factory every day - he builds missiles. These are weapons of mass destruction. What's the difference between that mass destruction and the mass destruction over at Columbine High School?" 
McCollum (PR person): "I guess I don't see that specific connection because the missiles that you're talking about were built and designed to defend us from somebody else who would be aggressors against us." 
First, note the word "our" in Moore's question. Moore is not from Colorado -- his question is generic, not meant to refer specifically to the Lockheed Martin plant in question. McCollum understands it this way -- otherwise he would protest against the plant being mischaracterized. However, critics of Moore have cleverly ignored McCollum's response and presented Moore as spreading lies about the Lockheed plant. 
Even Lockheed did not believe the public to be that gullible. In response to one Moore detractor, McCollum wrote: "Although other units of Lockheed Martin Corporation elsewhere in the country produce weapons to support the defense of the U.S., we make no weapons at the Littleton-area facility Moore visited." Of course, critics have conveniently ignored the fact that Lockheed Martin does supply weapons of mass destruction to the US military, and that the company is the nation's largest military contractor. As Moore correctly points out, it is bizarre for a society to openly embrace the production of destructive weapons, but on the other hand see no connection of this to everyday violence -- children learn by imitating adults. 
Yes, Moore makes this point through slight exaggeration by moving with the camera through the LM plant -- but he makes no incorrect statement. It is typical for his critics to jump on what is at most a slightly misleading implication, but in doing so, they themselves have, unlike Moore, made many incorrect claims. 
3) Denver NRA meeting. Critics like yourself claim that Moore has massively distorted evidence to support his point that Charlton Heston has effectively insulted the victims of the Columbine tragedy by holding a rally in Denver shortly afterwards. 
First, the "from my cold, dead hands" part: This is used by Moore as a visual citation to introduce Heston. It is perhaps one of his most famous quotes, shown on national TV even here in Germany. It tells viewers: Aha, this is the person we are talking about. Nowhere does Moore say or imply that these words were uttered at the rally in Denver, and in fact, their reptition later in the movie at another occasion (oddly claimed by critics to be again "misattributed") is simply a reminder of this. It is Moore's way to say: Viewers, meet Charlton Heston, gun nut extraordinaire. 
The "visual of a billboard and a narration" is viewed by you as evidence that Moore is trying to somehow tie the two events together, when in reality, it is quite obvious that he does it to separate the introduction of Heston from his speech in Denver. Moore is a professional filmmaker -- he concentrates on maximum impact of each of the statements he cites, and to accomplish that effect, uses subtle interludes instead of long-winded introductions. This is a common technique, but because conservative readers are not familiar with the basics of filmmaking, they believe critics who claim that he is "distorting" the interview. What he does is standard filmmaking practice. 
The same goes for the interview which follows. Moore's critics would expect us to have him quote Heston in his entirety, have him present fully the PR that the NRA has used to justify its rally in Denver for reasons of "balance". The NRA was fully aware of the scandal it would cause through its rally and decided to push on because they believed to have enough media support to successfully do so. They were right. You claim that there was "no way to change location, since you have to give advance notice of that to the members, and there were upwards of 4,000,000 members." 10 days are more than enough to give advance warning of a change in location or date, had the NRA really wanted to. It is probably correct that their primary reason for not doing so was to save money, not to piss off the victims of Colubmine. That does not change the fact that they did just that. Moore presents the most important part of the speech to back up this point and ignores the fluff. This is what good documentary filmmaking is about. And here the critics again ignore important evidence: 
When Heston mentions the mayor of Denver, the crowd boos loudly. Heston maganimously holds up a hand to read the mayor's letter (only to explain in detail why he chose to ignore the request -- not mentioning at all the reasons you have given!). This booing by the crowd, not mentioned with a single word in your transcript or your article, shows that the crowd was fully aware of the controversy they would cause by coming to Littleton after children were being killed there -- and they effectively said "Fuck you". To say that they could not have done otherwise is a bold lie by Moore's critics. 
4) The Kayla Rolland case. Again, critics like yourself charge Moore with deception. The rally took place on October 17, the shooting on February 29. Again, standard filmmaking techniques are interpreted as smooth distortion: "Moore works by depriving you of context and guiding your mind to fill the vacuum -- with completely false ideas. It is brilliantly, if unethically, done." As noted above, the "from my cold dead hands" part is simply Moore's way to introduce Heston. Did anyone but Moore's critics view it as anything else? He certainly does not "attribute it to a speech where it was not uttered" and, as noted above, doing so twice would make no sense whatsoever if Moore was the mastermind deceiver that his critics claim he is. 
Concerning the Georgetown Hoya interview where Heston was asked about Rolland, you write: "There is no indication that [Heston] recognized Kayla Rolland's case." This is naive to the extreme -- Heston would not be president of the NRA if he was not kept up to date on the most prominent cases of gun violence. Even if he did not respond to that part of the interview, he certainly knew about the case at that point. 
Regarding the NRA website excerpt about the case and the highlighting of the phrase "48 hours after Kayla Rolland is pronounced dead": This is one valid criticism, but far from the deliberate distortion you make it out to be; rather, it is an example for how the facts can sometimes be easy to miss with Moore's fast pace editing. The reason the sentence is highlighted is not to deceive the viewer into believing that Heston hurried to Flint to immediately hold a rally there (as will become quite obvious), but simply to highlight the first mention of the name "Kayla Rolland" in the text, which is in this paragraph. 
Unfortunately, because the zooming is rather fast, it is easy to miss the rest of the sentence, so as you correctly note, some viewers got an incorrect impression. It would have been fair for Moore to point out this possible misinterpretation on his website. However, the claim of deliberate distortion is ludicrous for several reasons: 
a) Moore clearly states that "before he came to Flint", Heston gave an interview. In the excerpt from said interview, we can see that it is from March. If Moore wanted to deceive his viewers, why would he say this, and show the month the interview was published? 
b) Why should Moore leave the words "Clinton is on the Today Show" visible in the text, which is necessary to correctly interpret the highlighted part? I reviewed the sequence several times and it is perfectly possible to see this text without pausing. 
c) Both the "soccer mom" interview and the sequences showing the NRA rally make no effort to distort the fact that this rally happened months after the fact. The camera lingers on Bush/Cheney posters, and the protestor is quoted as saying that "we wanted to let the NRA know that we haven't forgotten about Kayla Rolland". You make the hysterical claim that the interview "may be faked" (on the basis that no name is shown for the interviewee), but if Moore had faked it, why the hell should he put this sentence in the protestor's mouth, which directly contradicts the conclusion that the rally happened hours after Kayla's death? Why did Moore, the masterful deveiver, not edit this sequence out? This makes no sense. 
Opinions may vary on how tasteless it was for Heston to hold a pro gun rally on the location of the nation's youngest school shooting months after the fact, but this sequence of "Bowling" is without doubt the most unfair to Heston. The claims of deliberate distortion don't hold up when viewing the whole scene, though -- as "Hanlon's Razor" states, one should never attribute to malice what can be attributed to incompetence. The somewhat inept editing of the NRA press release has led some viewers to wrong conclusions, which is unfortunate, but Moore's critics have no interest in viewing the matter fairly. Had they done so, Moore himself would probably have apologized for the gaffe. In any case, at no point does Moore make a false statement, in contradiction to claims by critics that his documentary is "full of lies". 
5) You write: "Having created the desired impression, Moore follows with his Heston interview." No, he doesn't. You accuse Moore so often of changing the chronology, yet you have no problems changing it yourself. The Heston interview is at the very end of the movie. After the Flint rally comes a brief TV interview with Heston, where he is asked about Kayla Rolland (again, clear evidence that the local media in Flint raised questions about the NRA's presence), then an inteview with country prosecutor Arthur Busch, entirely ignored by critics of the film, who also mentions Heston's presence as notable, and refers to the immediate reactions of "people from all over America", gun owners/groups who, according to him, reacted aggressively to warnings of having guns accessible to children, much like spanking advocates react aggressively when anti-spankers point to a case of a child being killed or severely injured by a beating. These people do not feel the need to express sympathy, or to think about ways to avoid such incidents, but they feel the need to assert their "rights" and to look for quick, simple answers -- as Busch states, gun owners wanted to "hang [the child] from the highest tree". This is all not mentioned by critics of Moore's movie, who claim to be objective. 
Perhaps the best example of the paranoia surrounding Moore's film is your sub-essay "Is the end of the Heston interview itself faked?" 
Moore answers a simple question -- how could the scene have been filmed -- with a simple answer: two cameras. From this, you construct an obscure conspiracy of "re-enactment": "For all we can tell, Moore could have shouted 'Hey!' to make Heston turn around and then remained silent as Heston left." Even if your "re-enactment" theory is true (and I see no evidence that you have actually tried to ask the people involved in the filmmaking for their opinion), this itself is not unethical, and you have no evidence whatsoever that Moore has done anything unethical here, just like you have no evidence that Moore has unethically removed parts of the interview. You use standard filmmaking technique as a basis to construct bizarre conspiracies which sound plausible to the gullible reader, without ever providing any evidence for the implicit or explicit claims of fraud and distortion. 
6)Animated history of the US. Of course the cartoon is highly oversimplified, and most critics consider it one of the weakest parts of the film. But it makes a valid claim which you ignore entirely: That the strategy to promote "gun rights" for white people and to outlaw gun possession by black people was a way to uphold racism without letting an openly terrorist organization like the KKK flourish. Did the 19th century NRA in the southern states promote gun rights for black people? I highly doubt it. But if they didn't, one of their functions was to continue the racism of the KKK. This is the key message of this part of the animation, which is again being ignored by its critics. 
7) Buell shooting in Flint. You write: "Fact: The little boy was the class thug, already suspended from school for stabbing another kid with a pencil, and had fought with Kayla the day before". This characterization of a six-year-old as a pencil-stabbing thug is exactly the kind of hysteria that Moore's film warns against. It is the typical right-wing reaction which looks for simple answers that do not contradict the Republican mindset. The kid was a little bastard, and the parents were involved in drugs -- case closed. But why do people deal with drugs? Because it's so much fun to do so? It is by now well documented that the CIA tolerated crack sales in US cities to fund the operation of South American "contras" 
It is equally well known that the so-called "war on drugs" begun under the Nixon administration is a failure which has cost hundreds of billions and made America the world leader in prison population (both in relative and absolute numbers). 
In poor areas, the highly profitable drug business obviously is often seen as the last resort. But the real cause here are not the drugs themselves, but poverty and the "war on drugs". 
Had the boy's mother not been shipped to a "welfare to work" program, she might at least have had some time to spend with her son. Virtually every child psychologist knows that mother/child bonding is essential for the development of empathy and social abilities, the awareness of the consequences of one's actions, and the learning of conflict resolution by non-violent means. Even the official quoted by Moore blames the welfare to work program, knowing full well that the drug issue is a red herring. Once again, your emphasis on the little boy as a thug confirms Moore's (and Busch's) assertion that people wanted to hang the child from the highest tree instead of looking at the real causes. 
That's because while there is a so-called war on drugs, there is no war on poverty. Poverty is frequently portrayed as natural, and the poor in America are seen by conservatives as VCR-owners who are just too lazy to work. 
In reality, what Moore describes here is the most vivid example of what can only be called wage slavery I have ever seen, to the detriment of families. 
It is notable that the Wall Street Journal's reaction to this segment of the film was even more dismissive than yours: It called Moore's claim "preposterous". How could he even think about blaming poverty and forced labor programs for anything bad that happens? 
8) Taliban and American aid. After the September 11 attacks, it was necessary for conservatives to somehow explain away the fact that the US government gave 245 million dollars to the new evildoers du jour. Never mind the fact that authors such as Robert Scheer warned of aiding the Taliban as early as in May 2001. Never mind that they did so not out of some humanitarian motivation, but because of the Taliban's violent enforcement of the ban on opium poppies. Never mind that in a regime that is controlled by warlords, it does not matter who is authorized to distribute the aid -- the ruling regional warlords will seize control of it and use it to their own advantage. Never mind that this very argument has been used by hawks in opposition to sending humanitarian aid to Iraq's Saddam Hussein. Never mind that the Taliban continued selling opium in spite of the deal. Never mind that this is all documented on Michael Moore's website about the film. 
9) Gun homicides. Statistics are Moore's weakest point, and it is surprising that his critics don't dwell on them longer. That's because they know all too well that Moore is correct: The United States have a far greater homicide rate (both gun- and non-gun) than most other first world countries. His main mistake is that he does not use population corrected data, his second mistake is that he does not cite his sources (and, as you correctly point out, he probably uses different reporting methods for the different countries). A good comparison of international homicide rates can be found on the relatively neutral guncite.com website. 
Not surprisingly, guncite, too, compares data from different years -- as I know from personal experience, it is quite difficult to do comparisons of crime statistics due to differences in reporting frequency and methodology. The gun homicide rates for the countries Moore mentioned, according to guncite, are: 
Japan: 0.02 per 100,000 (1994)England/Wales: 0.11 per 100,000 (1997)Germany: 0.22 per 100,000 (1994)Australia: 0.44 per 100,000 (1994)United States: 3.72 per 100,000 (1999)
Critics fail to credit Moore with not making the same mistake that some gun control advocates make -- concluding that gun ownership "leads" to violence. In fact, Moore mentions several counter-examples, and more such counter-examples can indeed be cited. It is intuitively obvious that guns do not actually cause violence -- but it is equally intuitively obvious that they make the violence that is committed more deadly. It is the second intuition which gun rights groups like the NRA seek to obscure using fraudulent data by the likes of John "Mary" Lott. 
The gun control movement, on the other hand, distracts from the real causes of violence -- poverty, paranoia, the "war on drugs" and antisexuality. If these causes were addressed, gun ownership in the United States would not be a problem (but also unnecessary); just like it is in Switzerland. 
10) Canada ammunition purchase. You write: 
Bowling shows Moore casually buying ammunition at an Ontario Walmart. He asks us to "look at what I, a foreign citizen, was able to do at a local Canadian Wal-Mart." He buys several boxes of ammunition without a question being raised. "That's right. I could buy as much ammunition as I wanted, in Canada. Canadian officials have pointed out that the buy is faked or illegal. 
Once again, you fail to distinguish between regular film editing and "faking" (a word which "Canadian officials" have never used; for such a distortion, Moore would have been boiled alive by his critics). If Moore simply chose not to show how he revealed his identification to the salesperson, there is nothing fraudulent about that. He made no claims whatsoever in the film about the need to show or not show identification. His claim that it is possible to purchase ammunition in supermarkets is independent from that claim. 
11) Heston's allegedly implied racism. You conclude from Heston's own words that Heston was somehow portrayed as racist. If anything, it is his own failure that he did not clarify what he meant with "having a more mixed ethnicity". Heston's answers in the interview were evasive and unhelpful. While this can in part be explained with his age and mental condition, if he is unable to defend the interests of the NRA, he should not be their spokesman. In this case, Hanlon's Razor can be applied to Heston -- he is probably not racist, but incompetent. Your accusations of inappropriate cutting are once again entirely unsupported -- in fact, it is quite clear from watching that particular scene that there is not a single cut from the point at which Moore asks Heston a second time for the cause of the higher violence in the States, and the point when he mentions the Kayla Rolland incident. If Heston makes himself look like a fool, that should hardly be blamed on Michael Moore. 
Conclusion 
You write: "Bowling for Columbine is dishonest. It is fraudulent. To trash Heston, it even uses the audio/video editor to assemble a Heston speech that Heston did not give, and sequences images and carefully highlighted text to spin the viewer's mind to a wrong conclusion." None of this is true. What is true is that Bowling for Columbine is a diamond in the small world of big screen documentaries, one that shines brightly and illuminates an often misunderstood aspect of American culture. It is not a flawless diamond -- the "48 hours" scene in particular suffers from bad editing, the statistics are suboptimal, and Heston gets a bit more bashing than he deserves. Other than towards the NRA, the movie tries hard to avoid simplistic conclusions, and comes up with some thoughtful answers. The most shameful part of the ongoing attacks against Moore is that these answers have been all but ignored by his critics. Had Moore wanted to make a propaganda film, he would have used other material: photos from America's Emergency Rooms. 
Certainly, Moore is one of the most talented filmmakers in the United States today, and his film fully deserved its Oscar. The shrill (and remarkably unsuccessful) Internet campaign to "revoke" his award seems to be motivated more by jealousy than by real concerns about the film's accuracy. It is not only the highest grossing non-music documentary of all time, among the users of the largest Internet film database, IMDB, it is also the highest rated one. According to the LA Times, the documentary genre "owes a huge debt to Michael Moore" -- after Bowling's success, films like "Spellbound" and "Capturing the Friedmans" were taken seriously and shown in many more theatres than otherwise likely. 
But perhaps the campaign against Moore is really motivated by another reason. His next project has the working title "Fahrenheit 9/11: The temperature at which freedom burns", and he intends to launch it shortly before the next US presidential election. It is unlikely, however, that the unfair attacks against him will have much of an impact. After all, the same kind of PR blitz was started against the previous record-holding documentary: "Roger & Me" by Michael Moore. 
Yours sincerely, 
Erik Möller 
This text is in the public domain. 




   
      
         
            
            May 18, 2006
            ANTH 250
            Prof. Tavárez
            
            Indigenous Revitalization Movements of Latin America: 
            The Rediscovery of Language and Identity
            Humans, in the process of defining themselves, look to immediately recognizable factors in order to differentiate themselves from others. This process leads to the development of what can be broadly termed culture: a group of people joined by characteristics, traits, and beliefs comes to view themselves as sharing a distinct identity, discernible from that of those “outside” them, those who do not belong. Naturally this can be signaled by any number of things - clothing, food, lifestyle choices. One of the most dominant and easily noted factors is language. The command of a language, while not affording guaranteed access to the community which speaks it, is often the key to gaining entry. In turn communal identity can be formed around a language; it is used as the focal point around which the group gathers. Therefore when considering the indigenous revitalization movements which began in 20th century Latin America, the impact of those indigenous languages on those movements and the nature of the identity of the peoples themselves is key. Language plays a complex and integral role in the development and redefinition of an identity, particularly when that identity has been oppressed and subsumed by a dominant other for as long as that of the indigenous peoples in Latin America has. In particular I will examine two divergent yet remarkably parallel cases, that of the Maya in Guatemala and the Nasa and Guambiano peoples of Colombia. Their struggle to attain status in societies still bearing the marks of Spanish colonialism is deeply tied to their struggle to reaffirm the nature of their “indigenous identity”, and is in turn linked to the interaction of Spanish and their native languages.
            The effects of Spanish colonialism are both far-reaching and deeply embedded in both countries. One of the most prominent, lasting influences is that of the land grant system. Initially the Spanish government attempted to instate the encomienda system, in which a conquistador maintained direct control over the indigenous peoples and their land. This was in turn replaced by the repartimento; the natives were allowed to maintain control over their land and their laws but remained in every way the inferior of the Spanish, providing labor and taxes as demanded. In reality land ownership rights were the exclusive right of the Spanish, resulting in modern-day malappropriation of land ownership in the hands of the descendants of the Spanish colonialists (Warren 1978, 7-8). Indigenous peoples are commonly sharecroppers or migrant workers. The impoverished plight of the native populations was first recognized by the Marxist movements of the early 20th century. Those were the first to articulate the necessity of affirming the independent identity of the indigenous populations; previously, both the left and right maintained a belief in indigenous assimilation into the dominant Spanish culture. The Marxists, on the contrary, argued that the indigenous peoples possessed a unique identity. However, they also claimed that they were part of a larger group, the working class, whose poverty was a direct result of American imperialism; therefore they should join these new popular leftist movements in order to reorganize society into a worker-friendly one (Jackson 1995: 6-7). 
            In Colombia this resulted in a civil war between the Liberal and Communist parties and Conservative party. A truce established between the Liberals and Conservatives failed to meet the demands of the Communists, who in turn sustained guerrilla attacks in response. Guerrilla warfare has since become a part of Colombian life; multiple groups maintain an ongoing presence, often stationing themselves in the remote mountainous villages often populated by various indigenous peoples. This is similar to the situation of Guatemala: the government felt it needed to battle communism, an “armed and dangerous menace within”, plunging the country into civil warfare in the 1960s and continuing through the 1980s (Warren 1993: 25). This resulted in persecution against the Mayans, who make up about 60% of the overall population. In both counties, guerrillas were often associated with the native peoples; in many cases there were coalitions, but in others the guerrillas merely used the remote, inaccessible villages as hideouts. In Guatemala over 450 villages were destroyed, 200,000 Mayans were killed, and over 1 million more were displaced. The main guerrilla force was demilitarized in 1996 with the establishment of a peace accord (Warren 2002: 157-158).
            The growth in popularity and militarism of these popular leftist movements is intertwined with the development of the indigenous revitalization movements. By the 1970s the need to assert a cause separate from the general left was seen, and indigenous rights movements formed (Warren 2003: 174, Jackson 2002: 82). Central to these was the question of indigenous identity: largely lost amidst the overwhelming Spanish influence, local leaders sought to rediscover their native roots and redefine what it meant to be a part of indigenous culture. Pan-Mayanism in particular has sought to organize itself around the Mayan language; despite local dialectical differences, it is seen as the unifying force behind the diverse Mayan people. Most still speak it in various forms, and efforts by Mayan linguists to standardize the language are producing a coherent, modern version of Maya (England 2003: 733, 739). Pan-Mayanism has succeeded in part due to its focus on issues of ethnicity; it largely avoids specifically political overtones, instead concentrating on the development of the reemerging Mayan culture (England 2003: 734). The popular left, however, continues to see the rhetoric of ethnic rights as a politically viable tool. It therefore often invokes the banner of indigenous rights in its own discourse . The Pan-Mayan movement thus benefits from the lasting influence of the popular left on Guatemalan governmental policies without risking drawing the (often negative) attention of the government (England 2003: 735, Warren 2003: 181). A main concern among pan-Mayanists is the reversal of the long-seated inferiority complex of the Mayan people; despite their position as majority within the Guatemalan population, they remain impoverished and marginalized on the fridge of society. This results in part from the ingrained influences of Spanish colonialism: Spanish continues to be associated with modernity and social mobility, whereas Maya is seen as backward and inferior. Pan-Mayan leaders therefore seek to develop a return to Maya as it was in its classical renaissance, a language of power and prestige (England 2003: 736). By doing so they hope to inculcate among the Mayan peoples a renewed sense of pride which will in turn reverse the dogma of Spanish superiority.
            Colombia, in contrast, has no unified "pan-Indian" sentiments; the indigenous population is a small fraction of the overall population, a fractured entity divided by region and language. Several competing and oftentimes conflicting indigenous rights advocacy groups have developed: the ONIC poses itself as the sole pan-Indian group, yet lacks legitimacy in the eyes of many indigenous peoples (Jackson 2002: 83, 85). The CRIC, which focuses on language development and renewal, is primarily representative of the Nasa peoples (Jackson 2003: 82). It often stands in conflict with the AICO, its Guambiano counterpart (Jackson 2003: 83-84). Whereas the Mayanists benefit from a single main identity, those of Colombia must operate under historical differences between the various ethnic groups (Jackson 2002: 109). The Nasa and Guambiano have stood in opposition since pre-colonial times; therefore any coalition between the two advocacy groups is tenuous at best (Rappaport 2005: 2). This reflects a desire among the peoples themselves to maintain distinct ethnic identities, both from the Spanish Colombian population and each other. In the 1990s the rhetoric of "cultural diversity" was picked up the Colombian media, and subsequently entered the consciousness of the greater metropolitan public, thereby cementing its place in Colombian society as necessity and further complicating the role of indigenous movements in gaining rights for indigenous peoples as a whole.
            A major success in the Colombian saga is the revamped constitution of 1991, which includes a section on indigenous rights, as the Congress which drafted it included representatives from native groups (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 57). Central is a return to the old land grant system stemming from the repartimentos of the colonial era along with judicial sovereignty. While the repartimento was originally used to repress the indigenous groups, it is now used to support them: resguardos, or communally owned plots of land, are granted to communities. They are ruled by the cabildo, local governing boards formed of community leaders (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 51-52). The return to customary law reflects a substantial shift in indigenous identity: no longer ruled by Western laws and discourse, communities are forced to assess the efficacy of their old judicial systems in light of the modern era. The oral nature of jurisprudence directly conflicts with the desire of the Colombian government to codify law, and questions of human rights violations are common as punishments are often corporal in nature (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 57-58).
            The Colombian constitution stands in stark contrast to the failure of the Guatemalan indigenous rights referendum of 1999. Mayans gained formal recognition in 1995 as the majority population in a precursor to the 1996 peace accord; by 1999 its government floated a referendum on an indigenous bill of rights resembling that codified in the Colombian constitution (Warren 2002: 157-158). It failed, despite the Mayan majority; possible reasons include the overwhelming illiteracy rates among the indigenous population and inaccessibility of voting stations (Warren 2002: 149, 151). However, it reflects on a greater level both the desire of many Mayans to assimilate, as they still feel that is necessary for social mobility, and a belief among the general population that Mayans do not require a separate bill of rights as they are covered under the general rights already in the constitution (Warren 2002: 159, 172). Illiteracy rates are in fact correlated with the Mayan language itself: those who speak Spanish are more likely to be literate than those who speak Mayan alone (England 2003: 733). Nonetheless, in 2003 the legislature passed the law of national languages, which while reaffirming Spanish as the official language, recognizes the importance of indigenous languages as part of national identity and encourages their active promotion. While largely symbolic, it is still significant in that Guatemalan identity is seen as encompassing languages other than Spanish.
            This question of identity as defined by language manifests differently in Guatemala and Colombia. Within the pan-Mayan movement, there remains a desire to maintain linguistic diversity: some view the reduction of their language to the status of "dialect" devalues their unique identity and place in the Mayan world; however, despite differences over standardization, the pan-Mayan movement itself is largely cohesive. In contrast, Colombian indigenous groups are divided to the extent that linguistic diversity is not only valued, but serves to split the population, both between groups and within groups themselves. An example is the Tukanoans: while considered a single “ethnic group”, they maintain 16 distinct language groups and practice linguistic exogamy, in which members of one language group must marry into another (Jackson 1995: 4). 
            Language further works to establish identity by encapsulating a worldview markedly removed from that of the dominant Western culture. Indigenous cosmology, or “cosmovision”, is difficult to translate into Romanticized languages; it maintains a concept of culture, defined as “the form of behavior resulting from a permanent harmonic relationship with Nature” (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 58) and view of history as cyclic that is often at odds with Western modes of thought. Conflict between cultures arise as cosmovision is rediscovered and developed, often by native shamans in tandem with indigenous leaders aided by outside researchers and non-governmental organizations. The differences between Western and native perceptions then lead to conflict within the revitalization movements themselves: the question of embracing Western law and discourse is continually grappled with. It is necessary to work within the national legal system in order to gain policy reform beyond the local level; however, with widely differing concepts of justice a a balance is difficult to achieve. Customary law in Colombia contrasts with Western law as it maintains a different perception of casual relationships: tying back to the indigenous concept of harmony, crimes are viewed as imbalances in the community's harmony and can often be traced back to those who did not perpetuate the crime, but may have influenced the accused to do so. When a punishment - often public and corporal in nature - is carried out, the group feels the effects as a whole. Shamans often sit with the criminal as he fills his sentence, sharing in their ordeal. (Rappaport 2005) Once punishments are completed, the criminal is seen as rehabilitated, having fulfilled his duty to restore harmonic order, and is welcomed back into the community (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 61, Rappaport 2005: 97).
            Translation of law into native languages has proved to be a difficult task, as Western ideas often have no parallel in indigenous cosmovision. The translation of the Colombian constitution sparked the development of neologisms, as the goal of the translators was not to provide a direct translation of the constitution, but to recapture its spirit in a native, rather than Western discourse (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 58-59). This provides a second interpretation of law distinct from that of the Spanish Colombian culture, and in turn an interpretation aligned with native ideology for the cabildos to follow when governing (Rappaport 2005: 93, 236). Translation fulfills another vital role, as it is employed in the rediscovery of the indigenous identity itself. Workshops and advocacy groups regularly work to translate native histories back into native forms of knowledge, distancing them from the Western influences that have invaded over the past six centuries. The Guambiano history project charts native history as the outward spiraling events which are both cyclic and parallel in nature; Mayan historians translate and document oral histories whose legacy is in danger of being forgotten (Rappaport 2005: 165).
            This attempt to regain identity via translation is indicative of the intimate relationship between indigenous revitalization within a modern context and native language use. Difficulties arise, however, as conflicts between the traditional and modern and native languages and Spanish develop. Many native peoples in Colombia are monolingual Spanish speakers, raising the question of the practicality of indigenous language use. The differences between cosmovision in Spanish and indigenous languages are great, leading to the difficulty of governing in Spanish yet embracing indigenous mode of thought. In addition, there exists a complex relationship between what are perceived as different levels of indigenous identity; the Nasa, for example, divide themselves into the traditional, modern, and new. The authenticity of the modern Nasa, who are often metropolitan Spanish speakers attempting to reconnect with their roots, is brought into question by the traditional, who speak Nasa Yuwe and lead a rural existence(Rappaport 2005). In Guatemala the fact remains that Spanish is the gateway to social mobility; years of conflict and refugee status have established the desire to leave a rural way of life for an updated urban one, and those literate in Spanish have the tools to do so. Illiteracy and poverty is associated with Maya; thus there is the conflict between the desire to recapture the unique Mayan identity via the language and the need to improve living conditions, which most often occurs under Spanish influence.
            A further complication is the necessity of establishing authentic “Indianness”, both in the eyes of fellow indigenous peoples and the outside Spanish culture. The ONIC of Colombia lacks legitimacy precisely because it is perceived as not “Indian enough”; it embraces the use of Spanish and Western discourse, leading to distrust among indigenous peoples (Jackson 2002: 85). Politicians make a point of appearing in their native dress and speaking in their native language in assembly, even if they are more at home in a business suit and speaking Spanish; indigenous identity has become a calling card to the extent that at times it appears to be a caricature of itself. The Colombian constitution is problematic in that it provides little guide as to what exactly forms an indigenous group; the concept of culture is so complex and divergent that establishing self-determination in the eyes of the Colombian government requires emphasizing differences. Efforts towards development, then, cannot endanger traditional culture and values, for fear of losing cultural legitimacy (Jackson 1995: 5). There develops a duality in native culture; for example, many Nasa children receive instruction in Nasa Yuwe yet converse in Spanish outside the classroom. An emphasis on preserving, rather than practicing, native culture arises: indigenous authenticity is maintained by sustaining knowledge of traditional practices and beliefs without fully embracing them on a day-to-day basis (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 66-67).
             This intersection of language and indigenous identity poses challenges which have yet to be fully addressed. In Guatemala, they are largely comprised of the conflict between poverty and progress; the pan-Mayan movement must meet the dual trials of establishing a positive identity within the Mayan population itself and legitimacy in the legal and political arenas in order to gain policy reforms and codified rights in law. In Colombia, legal successes have often come about due to the Colombian government's recognition of the political viability of the rhetoric of indigenous rights; by granting indigenous peoples judicial sovereignty they hope to win the trust of a people who view the government as incapable of protecting them from the ongoing civil strife, and by giving them blocks of land they hope that the indigenous community will be able to keep out drug traffickers and guerrillas where the government itself has not (Jackson 1995: 8). Regardless of the ulterior motives behind their legal status, indigenous peoples in Colombia now possess the rights to teach and govern in their own languages according to their own laws (Jackson 1995: 5). Conflicts arise due to internal differences and the ever-persist problem of defining indigenous identity and authenticity in a pluralistic linguistic environment.
            Works Cited
            Gow, David D. and Joanne Rappaport. 2002. “The Indigenous Public Voice: The Multiple Idioms of Modernity.” in Indigenous Movements, Self-Representation, and the State in Latin America. Kay B. Warren and Jean E. Jackson, ed. Pp.47-80. Austin: University of Texas Press.
            
            England, Nora C. 2003. “Mayan Language Revival and Revitalization Politics: Linguists and Linguistic Ideologies.” American Ethnologist 105(4):733-743.
            
            Jackson, Jean E. 1995. “Culture, Genuine and Spurious: The Politics of Indianness in the Vaupes, Colombia.” American Ethnologist 22(1):3-27.
            
            ibid. 2002. “Contested Discourses of Authority in Colombian National Indigenous Politics: The 1996 Summer Takeovers.” in Indigenous Movements, Self-Representation, and the State in Latin America. Kay B. Warren and Jean E. Jackson, ed. Pp.81-122. Austin: University of Texas Press.
            
            Rappaport, Joanne. 2005. Intercultural Utopias. Durham: Duke University Press.
            
            Warren, Kay B. 1978. The Symbolism of Subordination. Austin: University of Texas Press.
            
            ibid. 1993. “La Violencia in Guatemala.” in The Violence Within. Kay B. Warren, ed. Pp. 25-56. Boulder: Westview Press.
            
            ibid. 2002. “Voting Against Indigenous Rights in Guatemala: Lessons from the 1996 Referendum.” in Indigenous Movements, Self-Representation, and the State in Latin America. Kay B. Warren and Jean E. Jackson, ed. Pp.149-180. Austin: University of Texas Press.
            
            ibid. 2003. “Pan-Mayan Activism in Guatemala.” in Contemporary Indigenous Movements in Latin America. Erick D. Langer and Elena Munoz, ed. Pp. 169-184. Wilmington: Scholarly Resources.
            
            
            
            
            
         
      
   

   
      
         
            Proposal for a Red Harvester Ant Robot: Colony Infiltration and Task Switching
            Sonia Roberts
            11/27/07
            Introduction
            
            Background
            Science fiction writers have been anticipating humanoid androids that could pass a Turing Test for years. Unfortunately, as of yet, no robot has managed to fool a human for more than a few seconds, and no robot has been created that can integrate itself into human society. Infiltrating insect societies, however, is much simpler. Extensive research has been done on the interactions of social insects such as honeybees, ants and cockroaches, and in fact robots have passed undetected in cockroach society performing single simple behaviors already (Halloy et al, 2007). No robot has yet been constructed, however, that could pass undetected within a colony of the red harvester ants species Pogonomyrmex barbatus; nor has a robot managed to pass undetected in a society of insects while combining in its design several different behaviors and the thresholds of stimulation required to switch between them. Such a robot would allow for both long-term studies of ant-robot interactions and studies of task-switching in the robots. I propose here the theoretical construction and programming of a robot (hereafter referred to as Antie) that will be able to infiltrate a red harvester ant nest, switching between the foraging, patrolling and midden work behaviors.
            
            Environment
            The red harvester ant lives in hot, dry deserts, building its nests in light yellowy sand and foraging for seeds deposited by winds and rain. The ants forage for more than 30 different varieties of seeds, many of which do not grow in the desert (Gordon, 54), where only a few varieties of small shrubs, small herbaceous flowering plants and short grasses do grow (Gordon, 51). Other insects and creatures, including other species of ants, are present in the desert, but red harvester ants seem to be relatively undisturbed by these animals (Gordon, 7-11). Though fights sometimes do break out with other red harvester ants from different nests, intraspecies interactions tend not to be aggressive (Gordon, 11). Because of this, I will ignore other ant species in the design of Antie, and will not create a fighting behavior. Antie will be equipped to navigate in this environment and will be designed to find seeds in sandy soil.
            
            The Ant & the Robot
            Ants of this species are of two types: breeding ants (queens and drones) and sterile female workers. Queens and drones will not be considered in this proposal, as their behaviors and design is much more specialized and would be applicable only during the breeding season, which occurs but once per year. The behaviors of the sterile workers may be divided into several subcategories: brood care, nest maintenance, patrolling and foraging. Little is known about brood care, as this occurs only in the deepest regions of the nest and observation would generally require the destruction of the nest. Nest maintenance and seed processing are likewise difficult to observe in the deeper regions of the nest, but the sorting and deposition of waste dirt and nest garbage outside of the nest (midden work) occurs close enough to the surface to be observable. Patrolling and foraging, too, occur for the most part outside of the nest, and have therefore been studied extensively (ex., Schafer, et al, 2006; Gordon, et al, 2002; Gordon, 2002; Gordon, 1987). It is therefore these three behaviors that I would like to focus on in this proposal: the others remain a bit too mysterious to yet model, and the ability of a robot to pass undetected in the depths of a colony would be very difficult to observe.
            These three behaviors each present different puzzles to the ant and to the modeler, though there is some overlap, particularly with navigational problems. In the case of midden work, Antie must be able to identify garbage, grasp it, carry it out of the nest, and deposit it about halfway down the mound before returning to repeat the process ad infinitum (or until stimulated to switch behaviors). Patrolling may be divided into two distinct sub-behaviors, nest patrolling and trail patrolling. An ant engaged in nest patrolling must exit the nest at the proper time in the morning and wander about for a bit on the nest mound, presumably taking measurements of the temperature and humidity in some way and making sure that it is safe for the other ants to exit. Perhaps the level of degradation of the nest patrollers’ cuticular hydrocarbons after this short foray into the sun and heat acts as an indication of the outside conditions to the foragers, who may then, upon smelling the returning patroller, be stimulated either to forage or to remain inactive inside the nest. An ant engaged in trail patrolling must exit the nest, wander around searching for food sources, identify food upon discovery and return to the nest to show the foragers where the food is. This is thought to be accomplished by the deposition of chemical markers from a gland on the abdomen that the patroller drags along the ground on her return route to the nest that the foragers may then follow (Gordon, 33-34; Holldobler et al, 1990, as cited in Webb, 1998). In addition to following these trails to the food, foragers must also be able to identify food, grasp it and carry it back to the nest. Ants engaged in all three behaviors must be able to identify other nestmates and their current tasks (as well as indicate to other ants their own nestmate status and current task), walk, navigate both within and outside of the nest, and of course switch tasks at appropriate times.
            
            The Agent 
            
            Chassis
            Antie will be implemented on a tiny Road Warrior robotic system. Behaviors will be coded in Interactive C, for which some pseudocode is included. Sensors will include a thermometer, photoreceptors, bump sensors, a polarization compass, and a series of chemical receptors. Antie be a circular robot, no more than 1cm in diameter (the length of a red harvester ant), with two driving wheels and one rear wheel for stabilization. A gripper will be located on the front of the robot consisting of two elongated tongs. Antie will also feature a skirt of bump sensors, sonar detectors and chemical emitters, including sacs of hydrocarbons extracted from ants of the nest being infiltrated and pheromones for successful patrolling and foraging. These sacs will be refilled at a filling station each morning as Antie determines that they are getting depleted. Antie will likewise recharge at a special station at night just inside the nest entrance. For the purposes of this proposal, I will assume that Antie has enough battery life to remain powered the whole day. A rudimentary blueprint of Antie is attached. (Fig 1)
            
            Sensors
            In order to inform itself about its environment, Antie will need a number of sensors. In an attempt to mimic the red harvester ant as closely as possible, these sensors include a thermometer, photoreceptors, bump sensors and sonar, a polarization compass, and a series of chemical receptors on a pair of stalks corresponding to the antennae. On its front grippers, Antie will have a tactile skin to sense pressure. The locations of the rest of these sensors will depend on their function.
            The thermometer will be located on the rear of the robot to keep it out of the way, and will detect and input to the robot the outside temperature in degrees Celsius. Harvester ants do not exit the nest when the outside temperature is above 52 degrees Celsius (Gordon, 9), and the ability to use a temperature gradient will enable in-nest navigation.
            Antie will also be equipped with one photoreceptor located in the middle of the top of its chassis corresponding to the ant’s eyes. These will be useful for initiating patrolling behavior in the morning and shutting off behaviors at night: the patrollers first poke their heads out of the nest shortly after sunrise and scuttle back in at night (Gordon, 5).
            The bump sensors and sonar will form a skirt around Antie to keep it from colliding with other objects. The sonar will constantly be detecting nearby objects and initiate an escape maneuver when their inputs pass a certain threshold of stimulation, and the bump sensors will, when depressed, also initiate the escape function. The sonar will correspond to the ant’s limited optical object detection ability, and the bump sensors will allow the robot to detect collisions.
            The polarization compass will consist of two polarized light sensors placed at 45 and -45 degrees from the center front of Antie, respectively, that will orient Antie towards a desired polarization pattern. These sensors would correspond to the cells in the ants’ eyes sensitive to polarized light, and research has shown that many insects, including ants, do navigate using a path integration system synthesizing input from a polarization compasses and from a sort of odometer (Labhart, et al, 2002). Antie would use a system for processing the input from its polarization compass based on the compass designed by Lambrinos, Moller, Labhart, Pfeifer and Wehner in 2000, consisting of two photodiodes with blue filters and polarizers. (Fig 2) The difference of their logarithmized signals would be returned to Antie, who will use a simultaneous model to navigate returns to the nest: Upon each exit from the nest, Antie will take a single 360o scan of the sky, and will orient itself according to an analytical procedure to derive compass information from different polarization patterns perceived later. This should be sufficient to return Antie to the nest, given the accuracy achieved by Lambrinos, et al and the relatively short periods of time that harvester ants spend outside the nest before returning.
            
            
               
            
            Fig. 2. Diagram of the polarization-opponent unit described by Lambrinos, et al (2000). The unit takes in polarization levels through the two polarization-sensitive photodiodes and feeds them into the logarithm ratio amplifier, which returns the difference of the logarithmized signals from the photodiodes. The e-vector (heading) returned from the two polarization-sensitive photodiodes (1, 2) follows a cos2-function.
            
            Ants themselves rely primarily on chemical information taken in through their antennae, and to mimic this, Antie will have chemical sensing and emitting “stalks” with which to both interact with other ants (who may be surprised to find an ant without antennae) and take in chemical information. These stalks will need to have receptors to measure the n-alkene levels present in another ant’s cuticular hydrocarbons, which research indicates is the marker for harvester ants of a nestmate’s current task, perhaps because the hydrocarbons are altered in the dry sun, causing a different ratio of n-alkanes to n-alkenes and the presence of branched n-alkanes in the hydrocarbon profile (Wagner, et al, 2001, as cited in Gordon & Greene, 2003). Antie’s stalks would also have receptors for the hydrocarbons themselves, which research shows indicate to the ants whether another ant is their nestmate (Arnold, et al, 1996, as cited in Gordon & Mehdiabadi, 1999), receptors to detect food, and receptors for three types of pheromones: those released by successful foragers returning with food, those released by successful patrollers returning to the nest, and those marking piles of trash as midden. Research shows that successful foragers returning to the nest do have a different effect on the inactive workers than unsuccessful foragers returning (Schafer, et al, 2006). Returning successful patrollers have an even greater effect on foraging activity: foragers will not leave the nest unless a patroller returns (Gordon, 2002), and the rate of foraging in a colony can be controlled by rolling glass beads coated with cuticular hydrocarbons extracted from patrollers into the nest (Gordon & Greene, 2003; Greene & Gordon, 2007). Midden seems to be marked in some olfactory way, since removing midden from nests makes them more likely to be invaded by other species (Gordon, 35). For the purposes of this proposal, I will assume that the nest maintenance and food processing ants have marked the midden with a particular pheromone. All of these chemical receptors will be arranged in an array on a pair of chemical stalks, with four of each type of receptor per stalk. This technique, described by Ishida, et al (2001), has been shown to improve the chemical plume-tracking abilities of robots. The wires will lead back down through the stalk to the on-board PC.
            Finally, Antie will have tactile sensors on its grippers to analyze the pressure being exerted on a gripped object. These sensors will be of the type patented by Peterson, et al (Patent #4,492,949), and will feature several layers of electrically insulating and parallel flexible conductive rods arranged such that an exerted pressure may be measured in output voltage. These will correspond to the muscles of the ant’s mandibles, which provide sensorimotor feedback to the ant when grasping objects. A table of the sensors and their relation to the ant’s sensory system is provided below.
            
            Fig 3. Table of sensors and their relations to the ant.
            
               
                     
                        Sensor
                     
                     
                        Relation to Ant
                     
                     
                        Placement on Antie
                     
                     
                        Function
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Sonar detectors
                     
                     
                        Eyes; object perception
                     
                     
                        Skirt
                     
                     
                        Prevent object collisions!
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Thermometer
                     
                     
                        Ants respond to different temperatures
                     
                     
                        Rear
                     
                     
                        In-nest navigation; tells Antie when to stop engaging in extra-nest activity
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        “Successful forager” pheromone chemical detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Forager behavior activation
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        “Successful patroller” pheromone chemical detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Detect and follow trails left by patrollers
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Photoreceptor
                     
                     
                        Eyes; light perception
                     
                     
                        Center top
                     
                     
                        Find surface from inside nest; tell patrollers when to begin patrolling in the morning
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Hydrocarbon alkene level detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Determine what task other ants are engaged in
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Cuticular hydrocarbon detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Determine whether an ant is a nestmate
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Chemical seed detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Determine whether an object is a seed or not
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Polarized photoreceptors 
                     
                     
                        Retina
                     
                     
                        45 and -45 degrees from center on top
                     
                     
                        Polarization compass
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Midden pheromone chemical receptors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Determine whether an object is midden or not
                     
                  
            
            
            
            Motors
            Antie’s motors will allow it to move around and interact with its environment and fellow ants. There will be two individually operated motors to drive the two side wheels in lieu of legs. Two simultaneously operated motors will open and close the grippers, emulating the grasping power of the ant’s mandibles. A third motor will lift and lower the grippers, allowing Antie to raise and lower gripped items as an ant would by raising and lowering its head. Three small sprayers will emit successful patroller and forager pheromones and cuticular hydrocarbons from the appropriate sacs. These will be located in different places: the sprayer for the successful patroller pheromone will be located on the rear at the base of Antie, corresponding to the glands that researchers believe the ants drag along behind them to mark returning paths, while the successful forager and cuticular hydrocarbon sprayers will be located on the skirt. Antie will not spray different pheromones depending on its task, on the assumption that its time in the sun will alter its hydrocarbons enough that its tasks will be recognizable to other ants. Almost all motor output will be a direct function of sensory input as indicated in the following section.
            
            The Behavior
            
            Antie will have a hybrid software architecture: a subsumption hierarchy will be responsible for switching between behaviors, but many sub-behaviors will operate on a schema basis. Pseudocode will approximate this architecture as closely as possible, and where appropriate, different subroutines running on a schema basis will be marked.
            
            Common Behaviors
            A few sub-behaviors will be necessary for more than one behavior. To ease Antie’s on-board memory requirements and processing capabilities (and to make all the rest of the pseudocode easier for the reader to understand), I propose a few global variables and subroutines.
            The following global variables will be used throughout the pseudocode, and are compiled here for ease of reference:
            
            // number representing calibration for speed
            double calibrate = 0;
            
            // constant representing the light at sunrise
            double sunrise;
            
            // outputs
            double left_motor_OP = 0;// left wheel motor
            double right_motor_OP = 0; // right wheel motor
            
            // inputs
            double photo_IP;// photoreceptor
            double temp_IP;// thermometer
            
            // Array inputs from left and right midden pheromone 
            // detectors. Assume a function to determine more precise
            // location, returning these variables:
            double left_midden_IP;
            double right_midden_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right alkene sensors. Assume a 
            // function to determine location:
            double left_alk_avg_IP;
            double right_alk_avg_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right successful forager 
            // sensors. Assume a function to determine location:
            double left_sucfor_IP;
            double right_sucfor_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right “successful patroller”
            // sensors. Assume a function to determine location:
            double left_sucpat_IP;
            double right_sucpat_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right nestmate hydrocarbon 
            // detectors. Assume a function to determine location:
            double left_hydrocarb_IP;
            double right_hydrocarb_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right chemical seed detectors.
            // Assume a function to determine location:
            double left_seed_IP;
            double right_seed_IP;
            
            
            // inputs from left and right sonar sensors:
            double left_sonar_IP;
            double right_sonar_IP;
            
            // Booleans representing detection
            boolean food_detect = false; // is an object food?
            boolean midden_detect = false; // is an object midden?
            boolean nestmate_detect = false; // is an object a nestmate?
            boolean sucfor_detect = false; // successful forager
            boolean forager_detect = false; // forager
            boolean midworker_detect = false; // midden worker
            poolean patroller_detect = false; // patroller
            boolean sucpat_detect = false; // successful patroller
            
            // thresholds at which inputs may be declared to
            // have been detected
            double food_threshold;
            double midden_threshold;
            double hydrocarb_threshold; // nestmate hydrocarbons
            boolean forage_active = false; // activation status as forager
            
            
            Common behaviors will include a forward cruise and turning mechanism, procedures to determine the orientation towards nest and the distance from the nest when outside, in-nest navigation, an escape function for when objects are detected or bumped into, object identification and gripping, a generic algorithm for pheromone plume and chemical trail following, and the identification of other ants.
            For a simple start, the forward cruise function will merely take in a double integer representing a speed and cause Antie to move forward at this speed.
            
            // Forward cruise
            // Takes in a number representing the desired speed.
            // Causes robot to cruise forward at said speed.
            // Speeds assumed to be on a 1-10 scale (10 being fastest).
            
            void forCruz(double speed) {
            // Each wheel input "gets" the appropriate speed
            // Calibrate is a double representing a calibration
            // initialized to zero and altered as necessary.
            
            // The robot will receive the “GO” command as long as
            // this function is running.
            
            left_motor_OP = speed + calibrate;
            right_motor_OP = speed;
            } // end forCruz
            
            A similar rotate function will be used to orient Antie towards a particular heading.
            
            // Rotate
            // Takes in a desired angle to rotate the robot and 
            // rotates accordingly
            // Assume that 10s is sufficient to rotate the robot 
            // completely around one wheel; this may be changed 
            // in implementation.
            
            void rotate(int angle) {
            // If angle to turn is to the right, rotate left wheel 
            // for a portion of 10s in accordance with desired 
            // angle's proportion of a circle
            if(angle>0) {
            while ([timer] < 10 * angle / 360) {
            left_motor_OP = 5;
            right_motor_OP = 0;
            }
            // else rotate right wheel for appropriate portion of 10s
            else {
            while ([timer] < 10 * angle / 360) {
            left_motor_OP = 0;
            right_motor_OP = 5;
            } // end while
            } // end else
            } // end rotate
            
            These behaviors will often be used in other subroutines running on a schema basis, and when combined with the forward cruise function, should cause the robot to move at an angle.
            In order to orient itself toward the nest while navigating outside, Antie will need to determine which direction the nest is in and rotate toward that heading, and also how far from the nest it is at its current location. The orientation and distance should be calculable by the polarization pattern according to the system set up by Lambrinos, et al. Antie will therefore have a polarization function that will return a compass direction toward which it should orient in order to return home to the nest, and a distance function that will return the shortest direct distance. We may assume that this first function will return a direction in degrees, positive or negative, and that the second function will return a distance in centimeters. The first function might look something like this:
            
            // Nest Orient
            // Takes in the polarization sensitive photo diode inputs
            // and returns the location of the nest in degrees.
            int nestOrient(double left_POL_IP, double right_POL_IP) {
            int degrees = 0;
            // Calculates direction of nest, and returns as degrees.
            return degrees;
            } // end nestOrient
            
            The second function, which would return the distance in centimeters, might look something like this:
            
            // Nest Distance
            // Takes in the polarization sensitive photo diode inputs
            // and returns the current distance to the nest.
            int nestDist(double left_POL_IP, double right_POL_IP) {
            int dist = 0;
            // Calculates distance from nest, returning distance in cm.
            return dist;
            } // end nestDist
            
            In-nest navigation will be a function of the temperature, read by Antie’s thermometer and a light source. To exit, Antie will seek a high temperature until the photoreceptor reaches a threshold of stimulation indicating sunlight, and to get deeper, Antie will seek a lower temperature. The code may look something like this:
            
            // Exit Nest
            // Uses temperature gradient to navigate towards the nest
            // entrance from inside
            
            void nestExit() {
            // Reads temperature, scoots forward 1s, reads temperature
            // again, takes the difference, and determines whether current 
            // heading is increasing temperature reading. If not, rotates // 45 degrees and tries again.
            while(photo_IP < sunrise) {
            double temp = temp_IP;
            while([timer] < 1){
            forCruz(5);
            }
            temp -= temp_IP;
            if(temp>0) rotate(45);
            } // end nestExit
            
            To enter the nest, such as at the end of a task, Antie will perform the same function, except it will seek a lower temperature instead of a higher temperature, it will avoid light, and it will only activate while Antie is less than 10cm from the nest entrance. This void function will be called nestEnter(), and will take in no inputs. 
            To avoid bumping into things (including other ants), Antie be provided with an escape function. Each of Antie’s eight bump sensors will cause the robot to rotate a different amount, and the sonar will cause it to rotate 90 degrees in the opposite direction. Regardless, this will be a very simple function. I will include one example:
            
            // Escape
            // Escapes from danger when bump sensors or sonar are 
            // activated.
            
            void escape() {
            // Declare and initialize left bump sensors in 
            // order from front to back.
            bump_left1;
            bump_left2;
            bump_left3;
            bump_left4;
            // Declare and initialize right bump sensors in 
            // order from front to back.
            // Sonar sensors are globally declared.
            
            if(bump_left1) {
            // reverse … (at reduced speed)
            forCruz(-3);
            // … and rotate!
            rotate(45);
            }
            } // end escape
            
            Because this function responds to the sensors on Antie’s around the sides and only its sonar detectors will be able to detect objects in front of it, this escape function will not prevent Antie from being able to locate and pick up objects such as seeds.
            Before picking objects up, however, Antie will need to identify them. This object detection process will be activated when the front bump sensor is stimulated or when both sonar detectors are stimulated. Chemical inputs will be checked to see what this object is most likely to be given its smell. Objects will include midden and food. The code may look something like this:
            
            // Object Identification
            // Identifies an object that has snuck up on the 
            // unsuspecting robot.
            
            void objID() {
            // Declare and initialize front bump sensor.
            // Sonar sensors are globally declared.
            
            // Check inputs to determine which smell is strongest
            // if food smell is detected at higher rate and 
            // above the food threshold for detection, Antie 
            // assumes object is food
            while (bump_front || (sonar_left_IP && sonar_right_IP)) {
            if(((left_midden_IP + right_midden_IP) 
            < ((left_food_IP + right_food_IP))
            && ((left_food_IP + right_food_IP) 
            > food_threshold) {
            food_detect = true;
            }
            // if midden smell is detected at higher rate 
            // and above threshold for midden detection, 
            // Antie assumes object is midden
            else if(((left_midden_IP + right_midden_IP) 
            > ((left_food_IP + right_food_IP))
            && ((left_midden_IP + right_midden_IP) 
            > midden_threshold) {
            midden_detect = true;
            }
            } // end objID
            
            Once the object has been identified, Antie may grip it and lift it. A simple void function grip() taking in no inputs will tighten the grippers until a certain threshold of pressure is reached, at which point the grippers will be lifted for carrying. A void function release() will perform this same action in reverse.
            Antie will also need to follow several different kinds of chemical gradient trails: it will need to track the trails left by successful patrollers, and localize the source of food-odors and midden-odors. Implementations of chemical gradient following robots using two sensors on “antennae” stalks has been successful in with analog robots in the past (Webb, 1998), regardless of the potential problem of airflow causing a disturbed gradient over evaporating pheromones. As a partial control for the problem of imprecise sensing, a function will perform an analysis of the array information coming on from Antie’s four sensors on each stalk. The differences between these outputs is what is being compared everywhere there is a “left_IP” or “right_IP.” Antie will use the chemical gradient algorithm of Braitenberg’s aggressive type 2 vehicle described in his book “Vehicles: Experiments in Synthetic Psychology,” as this was found through a series of experiments by Russell, et al (2003) to be very efficient when compared to several biomimetic models. Because the same general algorithm will be followed for the localization of all three chemical traces, I will provide pseudocode for only one generic subroutine. Note that a portion of this subroutine does run on a schema basis:
            
            // Follow Gradient
            // Follows a generic chemical gradient, seeking a higher
            // concentration.
            
            void gradientFollow() {
            // Compares left and right inputs and activates opposite
            // motor to a greater degree. 
            if (left_IP > right_IP) {
            [schema] {
            rotate(-90);
            forCruz(5);
            } // end schema
            } // end if
            if (right_IP > left_IP) {
            [schema] {
            rotate(90);
            forCruz(5);
            } // end schema
            } // end if
            else forCruz(5);
            } // end gradientFollow
            
            For the purposes of calls later in the pseudocode, I will refer to these subroutines as trailFollow(), findFood(), and findMidden(). All three are void and take no inputs.
            The final common subroutine will be one for the identification of other ants. When both sonar sensors are stimulated simultaneously, Antie will check hydrocarbon inputs and determine whether the detected object is a nestmate. As harvester ants tend not to engage aggressively with non-nestmates, Antie will only identify other ants as ants if they belong to its nest. Research has shown that red harvester ants may identify the tasks nestmates are engaged in based on the ratio of n-alkenes to n-alkanes in their hydrocarbons and the presence or absence of branched n-alkanes. The difference in ratio is caused by the time ants spend outside in the sun, which depletes their n-alkene levels. Antie will attempt to determine the tasks of other ants by sensing only the n-alkene levels. The code will be similar to the object identification subroutine and may look something like this:
            
            // Ant Identification
            // Identifies an ant that has snuck up on the 
            // unsuspecting robot.
            
            void antID() {
            while (left_sonar_IP && right_sonar_IP) {
            // Are hydrocarbons present? (Is this a nestmate?)
            if((left_hydrocarb_IP + right_hydrocarb_IP)
            > hydrocarb_threshold) {
            nestmate_detect = true;
            // In what task is the nestmate engaged?
            if (n-alkene level is appropriate for a forager) {
            forager_detect = true;
            }
            if (n-alkene level is appropriate for a patroller) {
            patroller_detect = true;
            }
            if (n-alkene level is appropriate for a midden worker) {
            midworker_detect = true;
            } // If not midden work, foraging or patrolling, ignore
            } // If not nestmate, ignore
            }
            } // end antID
            
            Using these basic common behaviors, more complex behaviors may be coded.
            Red harvester ants do not retain one task throughout their lifespan, but instead change their behaviors as is appropriate for the colony (Gordon, 1996). Research has shown that red harvester ants switch tasks partially as a function of age (ex., Ingram, et al, 2005) and partially as a function of interactions with other workers (ex., Schafer et al, 2006; Gordon, 2002; Greene & Gordon, 2007). Younger ants work more inside the nest, and older ants work more outside the nest. As a result, I will model the three main behaviors in the order that they are to be engaged in. Midden work, which consists of moving dirt between the inside of the nest and the outside, will occur first; patrolling, which involves a shorter overall amount of time spent outside, will occur second; and foraging will be the final behavior. Finally, I will discuss a main method encoding the task switching between these behaviors.
            The midden work behavior will be Antie’s default initial behavior. It will be initiated in the morning by the sunrise, and will continue until the outside temperature reaches 52­­­oC, at which point all red harvester ants must return to the nest. As previously stated, a midden worker must identify midden, grasp it, and carry it to the surface, depositing it halfway down the mound before returning to collect more midden. A program encoding this behavior might look like this:
            
            //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // MIDDEN WORK
            //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // Antie will leave nest in the morning after sunrise,
            // carrying bits of midden halfway down the nest mound
            // and depositing them. Antie will return to the nest and
            // repeat this task until the temperature reaches above
            // 52 degrees Celsius.
            
            void midden() {
            
            // Initiated by sunrise, stopped by temperature
            while (photo_IP > sunrise && temp_IP < 52) {
            // Find midden and identify any found objects. If
            // they are midden, grip and carry outside nest.
            findMidden();
            objID();
            if(midden_detect) {
            grip();
            nestExit();
            // cruise to halfway down the nest mound
            while(nestDistance() < 25) {
            forCruz();
            }
            release();
            // reset midden_detect
            midden_detect = 0;
            nestEnter();
            } // end if
            } // end while
            } // end midden
            
            The second behavior, patrolling, involves two sub-behaviors: nest patrolling and trail patrolling. Nest patrolling will involve leaving the nest, roaming around on the nest mound for a few minutes, and reentering the nest. This behavior will be implemented in two parts, with a task-switching algorithm based on age. Research shows that ants do change their behaviors based partly on their perceived life expectancy (Moron, et al, 2007), and that task-switching is partly genetically controlled by a switch in gene expression as the individual ages (Ingram, et al, 2005). It is therefore reasonable to assign a constant age at which Antie will switch from nest patrolling to trail patrolling. In order to perform both of these functions, Antie will need a subroutine to explore in a zig-zag fashion, as harvester ants do (Gordon, 34). Harvester ants display a preference to wander in familiar territory, though foragers and patrollers do sometimes wander into other nests’ territories (Gordon, 57-60). To control for this behavior, Antie’s explore subroutine will display a preference for exploration in places where there is a low gradient of nestmate pheromones. This model is reasonable because patrollers and foragers change their explored territory from day to day, even though they do retain some more commonly chosen paths (Gordon, 45). The code may look something like this:
            
            // Explore
            // Takes in desired distance from nest to explore 
            // in cm and moves in a slightly randomized zigzag 
            // pattern
            
            void explore(int distance, int time) {
            // Local Variables
            int time=0; // integer representing the time to 
             // wander one direction
            int angle=0; // integer representing number of 
             // degrees to rotate
            int dir=0; // integer representing the direction to 
             // turn (0=right, 1=left)
            
            // Random number generator to add a bit of wanderlust
            RandomGenerator rGen = new RandomGenerator();
            
            // While loop; robot will keep zigging and zagging 
            // for a set amount of time
            while ([timer] < time) {
            if (ant's distance from nest < distance) {
            // int time gets a random number of seconds 
            // between 3 and 10
            time = rGen.nextInt(3,10);
            // int angle gets a random number of degrees 
            // between 15 and 75
            angle = rGen.nextInt(15,75);
            
            // function call to rotation subroutine
            // if dir is 0, rotate to the right; if dir 
            // is 1, rotate to the left.
            if (dir==0) {
            dir = 1; // dir changes direction- turn 
             // left next time
            rotate(angle); // rotate to the right
            } else {
            dir = 0; // dir changes direction- turn 
             // right next time
            rotate(-angle); // rotate to the left
            } // end rotation call
            
            // while loop to count down number of seconds 
            // using a timer
            while ( [timer] < time) {
            // command to go forward is given
            goForward = 1;
            // call to forward cruise function; 
            // straight cruise
            forCruz(5,5);
            } // end timer while loop
            } // end distance from nest while loop
            // if ant is approaching the desired distance,
            // double back (at angle) to explore more!
            if (ant's distance from nest ==
            distance - some small constant) {
            rotate(135);
            } // end if
            // Avoid leaving nest territory
            else if (nestmate pheromones IP < very low threshold) {
            while([short timer]) {
            forCruz(5); // explore a bit further
            } // end while
            rotate(45);
            } // end if
            } // end if (distance from nest < distance)
            } // end explore
            
            Nest patrollers will only call this behavior for a short distance before returning to the nest to idle for a few minutes and exit again. Trail patrollers will go much further, until food sources are found, and will then orient towards the nest and create trails for the foragers to follow. A general site of food is all that the patroller need find; the foragers will dig through the sand for the food. Code for the patrolling behavior might look like this (note that part is on a schema basis):
            
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // PATROLLING
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            //
            // Main patrolling behavior function.
            // Includes nest patrolling, trail patrolling and the
            // stimulation and thresholds to initiate and switch between
            // the two.
            
            // Nest Patrolling
            // Patrollers' first job of the day: exit the nest and
            // explore the nest mound, taking measurements.
            void nestPatrol() {
            while (photo_IP > [light at sunrise]
            && temp_IP < 52 degrees Celsius ) {
            nestExit();
            // Nest mounds are generally up to 1m across
            // Thus, explore in a 50cm radius (Gordon, 6)
            explore(50, 120);
            [schema] {
            rotate(nestOrient());
            forCruz(5);
            nestEnter();
            }
            wait a short time
            } // end if
            } // end nestPatrol
            
            // Trail Patrolling
            // Patrollers exit nest and attempt to find food. Once food
            // is found, they mark a trail leading back to it while
            // taking the most efficient route home.
            void trailPatrol() {
            while (photo_IP > [light at sunrise]
            && temp_IP < 52 degrees Celsius ) {
            nestExit();
            // Explore no further than about 15m from nest, for no
            // more than 20 minutes
            if (food_IP > some low threshold){
            findFood();
            if (food_detect) {
            [schema] {
            rotate(nestOrient());
            forCruz(5);
            spray “successful patroller” pheromone
            nestEnter();
            }
            wait a short time
            }
            }
            else {
            explore(1500, 20 * 60);
            [schema] {
            rotate(nestOrient());
            forCruz(5);
            nestEnter();
            }
            wait a short time
            }
            } // end if
            } // end trailPatrol
            
            For the task-switching in the patrolling behavior, assume some variable “age” that Antie has been keeping track of using the CPU’s clock pulses to track the time since its last bootup. The integers nestpatrol_age and trailpatrol_age will represent the ages at which it is appropriate to switch to these tasks.
            
            // PATROLLING
            // Task-switching hierarchy for the two types of patrolling
            void patrol() {
            while (age > nestpatrol_age && age < trailpatrol_age) {
            nestPatrol();
            }
            while (age > trailpatrol_age && age < forage_age) {
            trailPatrol();
            }
            }
            
            The final behavior, foraging, will involve one extra subroutine that will employ an algorithm designed by R. Andrew Russell to localize an object through sand based on a chemical plume. This will emulate the digging that foragers must often do in order to locate seeds, and will enable Antie to accurately retrieve seeds for its host nest. This algorithm will keep track of the last two intensities of the desired chemical input and compare them. It would also keep track of whether the last rotation was clockwise or counter-clockwise. The code for this, adapted from Russell’s paper, might look like this:
            
            // Hex-path search
            // Localizes an object through sand using chemical detection
            void hexSearch() {
            double intense1 = inensity at n-1;
            double intense2 = intensity at n-2;
            while (nothing in grippers) {
            if (((intense2 > intense 1)
            && last rotation was counterclockwise)
            ||
            (((intense2 < intense1)
            && last rotation was clockwise)) {
            rotate(-60);
            while([short timer]) {
            forCruz(5);
            }
            } // end if
            else {
            rotate(60);
            while([short timer]) {
            forCruz(5);
            } // end while
            } // end else
            } // end while
            } // end hexSearch
            
            Foragers will follow trails marked by patrollers to their conclusion before collecting food to bring back to the nest, even if more tantalizing food presents itself in their path (Gordon, 47). To address this, a strict subsumption hierarchy will make sure that the foragers do not stop to collect food too soon. The code might look like this:
            
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // FORAGING
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            //
            // Main foraging behavior function.
            // Foragers will exit the nest upon activation and follow
            // a trail laid by the patrollers. Upon completion of the
            // trail-following, will locate and grip food, returning
            // to the nest. Boolean forage_today represents Antie’s
            // activation status for each day once it has switched to 
            // the foraging behavior.
            
            void forage() {
            // Wait for a successful patroller to return.
            if (sucpat_detect) forage_today = true;
            while (forage_today && temp_IP < 52) {
            nestExit();
            trailFollow(); // Follow successful patroller trail.
            // Note that this is NOT a schema basis, which would 
            // cause Antie to stop and retrieve food encountered en 
            // route.
            // When end of plume is reached, retrieve food.
            while (!food_detect) {
            // while food has not yet been found, continue searching 
            // and identifying found objects
            hexSearch();
            objID();
            }
            // Once that loop has been broken, return to nest
            [schema] {
            // grip food and return to nest
            grip();
            rotate(nestOrient());
            forCruz(5);
            nestEnter();
            }
            // release food just inside nest entrance
            release();
            } // end while
            } // end forage
            
            Of course, what makes Antie an innovative robot is the task-switching between these larger behaviors. Because the midden work behavior is Antie’s initial default behavior, I will not address task switching to midden work. Workers probably switch to patrolling based on their perceived life expectancy and as a function of a gene whose expression changes between young and old ants, and this is easily emulated using a clock pulse counter in Antie’s CPU that will count its “age” since last boot. To remind the reader, this technique was implemented earlier in this proposal to create the limited task-switching between nest patrolling and trail patrolling. The switch from patrolling to foraging has been modeled as a function of successful foragers’ returns with great accuracy by Schafer, et al (2006), and evidence from experiments in which successful foragers were removed before reentry to the nest does support the theory that returning successful foragers have an effect on the activation of new foragers (Gordon, 2002). Activated foragers form a queue to exit the nest and exit at a steady rate. According to Schafer’s, et al. model of forager activation, every time a successful forager returns and no foragers are currently in line to exit, a fraction (modeled at 0.0035) of inactive foragers joins the queue. For the purposes of modeling Antie, I will assume that the switches between these behaviors are permanent, irreversible and partly a function of age, with new foragers being activated by returning successful foragers. The code to model this task-switching might look something like this:
            
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // TASK-SWITCHING
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            //
            // Main function of Antie’s software. Examines the task-
            // switching criteria and determines when Antie will perform 
            // what behavior. Int “age” is an integer representing the
            // time since Antie’s last boot, corresponding to the age
            // of an ant being simulated. Int nestpatrol_age refers to the 
            // starting age at which Antie will begin to nest patrol; 
            // forage_age refers to the starting age at which Antie may be 
            // activated to forage. This would correspond to the change in 
            // gene expression described by Gordon (2002).
            
            main() {
            // default to midden work
            while (age < nestpatrol_age) {
            midden();
            } // end while
            // switch to patrolling behavior based on age
            while (nestpatrol_age < age && age < forage_ave) {
            patrol();
            } // end while
            // switch to foraging as a function of time, but 
            // remain inactive until stimulated by returning 
            // successful foragers
            // Assume that inactive foragers will not smell different 
            // from patrollers, which was their last task, because 
            // they have not yet spent sufficient time in the sun.
            if (sucfor_detect at time n-1 == false 
            && sucfor_detect at time n == 1) {
            0.0035 probability: forage_active = true;
            }
            
            while (age > forage_age && forage_active) {
            forage();
            }
            } // end main
            
            
            Conclusion
            
            Antie will be a fully autonomous, situated and embodied agent, infiltrating a red harvester ant colony and providing valuable information not only about the hypothesized rules of these ants’ behaviors and their task-switching thresholds, but also about the combination of complex behaviors into a single autonomous system with the ability to switch between behaviors as necessary. Biomimetic robots have long been a rich source of information for both biologists and robotics engineers, and complex robots that can switch tasks as the situation demands and communicate information about current tasks could be useful for further studies of complex robot behaviors as well as for the obvious practical applications of robot swarms, such as on the battlefield and standard building maintenance.
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            REFERENCES
            
            Braitenberg, V. Vehicles: Experiments in Synthetic Psychology. MIT Press: Cambridge, MA, 1984.
            
            Gordon, D.M., & Greene, M.J. Cuticular hydrocarbons inform task decisions. Nature 32 (2003).
            
            Gordon, D.M. The regulation of foraging activity in red harvester ant colonies. American Naturalist 159, 509-518 (2002).
            
            Gordon, Deborah. Ants at Work: How an Insect Society is Organized. Norton: New York, NY, 2000.
            
            Gordon, D.M. The organization of work in social insect colonies. Nature 380, 121-124 (1996).
            
            Greene, M.J., & Gordon, D.M. Interaction rate informs harvester ant task decisions. Behavioral Ecology: Advance Access, published January 22, 2007.
            
            Halloy, J., Sempo, G., Caprari, G., Rivault, C., Asadpour, M., Tache, F., Said, I., Durier, V., Canonge, S., Ame, J.M., Detrain, C., Correl, N., Matrinoli, A., Mondala, F., Siegwart, R., & Deneubourg, J.L. Social integration of robots into groups of cockroaches to control self-organized choices. Science 318, 1155-1158 (2007).
            
            Holldobler, B., & Wilson, E.O. (1990). The ants. Berlin: Springer-Verlag. As cited in Webb, B. Robots, crickets and ants: models of neural control of chemotaxis and phonotaxis. Neural Networks 11, 1479-1496 (1998).
            
            Ingram, K.K., Oefner, P., & Gordon, D.M. Task-specific expression of the foraging gene in harvester ants. Molecular Ecology 14, 813-818 (2005).
            
            Ishida, H., Nakamoto, T., Moriizumi, T., Kikas, T., & Janata, J. Biol. Bull 200, 222-226 (2001).
            Labhart, T., & Meyer, E.P. Neural mechanisms in insect navigation: polarization compass and odometer. Current Opinion in Neurobiology 12, 707-714 (2002).
            
            Lambrinos, D., Moller, R., Labhart, T., Pfeifer, R., & Wehner, Rudiger. A mobile robot employing insect strategies for navigation. Robotics and Autonomous Systems 30, 39-64 (2000).
            
            Moron, D., Witek, M., & Woychiechowski, M., Division of labor among workers with different life expectancy in the ant Myrmica scabrinodis. Association for the Study of Animal Behavior (2007), doi:10.1016/j.anbehav.2007.06.005.
            
            Peterson, R.R., Schubert, D.W., & Cholakis, P.N. "Tactile sensors for robot gripper and the like." U.S. Patent 4,492,949. 8 January 1985.
            
            Russell, R.A. Chemical source location and the RoboMole project. Intelligent Robotics Research Centre, Monash University, Clayton, Australia. Contact: andy.russell@eng.monash.edu.au
            
            Russel, R.A., Bab-Hadiashar, A., Shepherd, R.L., & Wallace, G.G. A comparison of reactive robot chemotaxis algorithms. Robotics and Autonomous Systems 45, 83-97 (2003).
            
            Schafer, R.J., Holmes, S., & Gordon, D.M. Forager activation and food availability in harvester ants. Animal Behavior 71, 815-822 (2006).
            
            Webb, B. Robots, crickets and ants: models of neural control of chemotaxis and phonotaxis. Neural Networks 11, 1479-1496 (1998).
            
         
    
      
   

   
      
         
            Tonal Structure and Form in Bartók’s Concerto for Orchestra (I)
            Drew F. Nobile
            University of Washington
            Before beginning an analysis of any piece by Béla Bartók, one must first decide to what degree tonal analysis will be used. Bartók’s music, although it is often difficult to call completely tonal, never entirely sheds itself of tonal elements and structure. This remains true even with one of his last compositions, the Concerto for Orchestra, written two years before his death in 1943. The discussion that follows analyzes the first movement of the Concerto, focusing on the tonal structures at play throughout the movement. The analysis will treat the movement tonally, investigating the progression of local “tonics” and its relationship to the overall form. We will also examine to what degree a “tonal” reading of this movement is limited in its analytical potential in an attempt to pinpoint exactly where Bartók strays from common-practice compositional techniques.
            Harmonic Structure and Form
            Bartók describes the form of the first movement as “more or less regular sonata form.”
                  Bartók, 431.
                While that does not seem to be a meaningful assertion, it is perfectly accurate: the movement is in sonata form, but there is an introduction that does not relate thematically to any other parts of the movement (not unheard of in Mozart sonatas), and the recapitulation presents the two themes of the exposition in reverse order. The “backwards” recapitulation is a technique that Bartók employs frequently because of the formal symmetry it creates.
                  For example, the fifth string quartet. Also see Bartók’s comments on that (Bartók, 414).
                Example 1 shows a diagram of the form of the movement; the symmetry is apparent within the seven sections following the introduction. As the example shows, the development section is divided into three subsections; the first and third subsections draw their thematic material from the first theme group, and the second subsection involves new material not drawn from the exposition. Hence, on either side of the middle section of the development we have the alternation FTG-STG-FTG which makes the overall form, with the exception of the Introduction, symmetric.
                  Paul Wilson also discusses the inherent symmetry of the movement, although his interpretation is somewhat different. See Wilson, 168-170.
               
            
            || Intro | FTG | STG | Dev I (FTG) | Dev II (new) | Dev III (FTG) | STG | FTG ||
                  The abbreviations FTG and STG stand for First Theme Group and Second Theme Group, respectively.
               
            
            example 1: formal structure of the first movement
            Sonata form—or, “more-or-less” sonata form—carries harmonic as well as formal connotations. While “tonality” in this piece (and in Bartók’s music in general) is quite different from its classical interpretation, we find that the harmonic structure is at least analogous to the standard sonata-form structure. To begin with, the movement is in F. When we say “in F,” we do not imply F major (or minor, for that matter)—the major/minor tonal system in general does not apply to this piece—but rather that the pitch-class F is the tonal center of the movement, and acts analogously to the tonic in a Mozartian sonata movement. Using this interpretation, we can map out the local tonics (tonal centers) used throughout the movement, as shown in Example 2.
            
               
            
            example 2: harmonic structure of the first movement
            In this example, the barlines divide the formal sections of the piece (Introduction–Exposition–Development­–Recapitulation)—so we can immediately see that the tonic F is not established until the exposition begins. Beginning with the exposition, the large-scale progression of tonal centers is a whole-tone descent from F to F, represented by the stemmed notes in Example 2, while the Introduction ascends from C♯ to F through D♯ (shown as D♭ and E♭ in the graph) in a quasi-bass Anstieg. The middle pitch of the descent, B, acts as the “dominant” to F, based on its symmetrical division of the whole-tone scale and the fact that the second theme appears in B in the exposition. Bartók has often applied a tonic-dominant relationship to a pitch-class and its tritone partner, and even admits to using that as a compositional framework in his fifth string quartet.
                  See Bartók, 414-415.
                In this particular movement, Bartók feigns moving to the tonal dominant, C, for the second theme before reinterpreting C as a chromatic passing tone between D♭ and B—this and other subtleties shown in Example 2 will be explained in detail in later sections.
            
               
            
            Paul Wilson gives a detailed account of the foreground activity throughout this movement in his analysis; we do not seek to duplicate or substitute for his findings. Our analysis will focus instead on relating the foreground activity to the overarching background structure. The graph in Example 2 will serve as a point of departure for the subsequent analysis; while we will periodically refer back to some of its specific elements, it should be understood that even when not explicitly referenced, this graph serves as the explanatory goal of this paper.
            The Introduction
            As Paul Wilson points out, the title “Introduzione” given to the movement as a whole seems to apply only to the first 75 measures.
                  Wilson, 172.
                The Introduction does not relate thematically to any of the main sections of the movement—in fact, it is the third movement that draws its thematic material from this section—but the harmonic and motivic principles at play here foreshadow some important elements of the entire piece. To begin with, the opening motive in the celli and basses, shown in Example 3, outlines a pentatonic set and strongly presents C♯ as the tonal center. The pentatonic set here is exclusively a pitch-class set, and its incarnations throughout the movement are devoid of any connotations associated with the pentatonic scale. Indeed, this set can be seen more as a by-product of stacked perfect fourths than a generative element itself. The perfect fourth in fact generates much of the motivic and harmonic material of the entire movement, and its importance is immediately evident in the Introduction with the opening bass motive. Furthermore, the following two instances of this opening motive, shown in Examples 4 and 5, remove any doubt as to the motivic importance of the perfect fourth, and in turn diminish the importance of the pentatonic set.
            
               
            
            example 3: measures 1-6 (celli and basses)
            
               
            
            example 4: measures 12-16 (celli and basses)
            
               
            
            example 5: measures 22-29 (celli, basses and violas)
            Example 4 transitions from C♯ to F♯, and adds pitch-class E to the pentatonic set of Example 3, creating a six-note set of stacked fourths. Example 5 shows the true dominance of the perfect fourth; the set created is a ten-note set derived by stacking fourths.
                  If we begin from the final D♯ and ascend the circle of fourths until we reach C we obtain the entire set presented in this example.
                Each note is either approached or left (or both) by a fourth, and the structural motion is from F♯ to D♯. The overall motion in the first 29 measures is C♯ to D♯, through F♯; these are represented enharmonically in Example 2 as D♭, E♭ and G♭. As previously mentioned, this motion constitutes the initial ascent to what will eventually be a whole-tone descent from F to F. So the prevailing structural motion of the movement as a whole is a descending whole step and the prevailing melodic motion is a (usually ascending) perfect fourth. We can connect the two by noting that the descending whole step consists of two ascending fourths; indeed, the structural whole-tone descent is often “filled in” with the intervening fourth. This motion is exemplified in Example 2 in the second theme group (mm. 155-233), and as we will see, it occurs in other places, though not relevant enough to the background structure to be represented in Example 2. 
            Each time the motion in Examples 3 through 5 breaks from chains of fourths, the same sequence of intervals occurs: two descending perfect fourths separated by an ascending major second (-5, +2, -5); each instance of this intervallic cell is bracketed in the examples. This sequence of intervals is the inversion of those found in the second head motive of the first theme of the exposition, shown in measures 2-3 of Example 8. So although there is no thematic relation between the Introduction and the main sections of the movement, within the first 29 measures we can already see structural, harmonic and motivic elements that apply to the movement as a whole.
            The section from measures 35-50 is centered on E; upon the return of D♯, enharmonically respelled as E♭, in measure 58, we see that E acts as its upper-neighbor. This relationship is somewhat obscured by measures 51-57 however; while there is no clear tonal center for this section, G appears in the outer voices in measure 51, although the harmonic material is reminiscent of C minor. The concluding motive of this section in the violins (the bracketed sections of Example 6), as well as the bass motive of measure 58ff. (Example 7), are related to the first head motive of the first theme, which is shown in the first measure of Example 8. All three of these motives span a tritone, which as mentioned is the “dominant” relationship in this movement. Paul Wilson describes the transition from the Introduction to the Exposition as “quite abrupt and seemingly unmotivated,”
                  Wilson, 173.
                but it is in fact this motivic relationship that ties them together and creates a rather smooth transition.
            
               
            
            example 6: measures 56-58 (violin 1)
            
               
            
            example 7: measure 58 (violas, celli, basses); repeated through measure 75
            The Exposition
            Although the motivic relationship between the Introduction and the first theme of the exposition smooth the transition, nearly every other element changes when the first theme appears. The drastic tempo and meter changes as well as the first appearances of staccato articulations make it clear to the listener that the introduction is over. As mentioned, the first theme, the beginning of which is reproduced in Example 8, contains two head motives: the first is the tritone-spanning ascent that appears in the first measure, and the second is an iteration of the interval cell (+5, -2, +5) that appears in the second through third measures. While the presence of the perfect fourths that was so prevalent in the Introduction is clear in the latter, the former does not employ the perfect fourth in its formation. Rather, this motive is a small-scale representation of the tonic-dominant relationship of tritone partners, specifically F and B, that is the basis for the harmonic structure of this movement.
            
               
            
            example 8: measures 76-80 (violins)
            Rhythmically, we have a dissonance between the melody, which follows the written meter, and the accompanying chords in the bassoons, horns and lower strings. Example 9 reproduces the chords, and Example 10 rewrites them in a meter that is more consistent with their rhythmic pattern. As Example 10 shows, the chords are more-or-less in duple meter (4/8 and 2/8) with one “hiccup” occurring in the 5/8 measure. This is in strict metric dissonance with the triple meter of the melody (with its own “hiccups” occurring in the written 2/8 measures). As we will later see, this dissonance disappears when this theme returns in the recapitulation.
            
               
            
            example 9: measures 77-91 (bassoons, horns, lower strings; reduced)
            
               
            
            example 10: measures 77-91 rebarred to reflect rhythmic pattern
            We have already mentioned that the first theme group is in F—this is made clear from the onset, both in the melodic line and by the F minor triad that occurs on the downbeat of measure 77. While the material occasionally departs from this F in measures 76-94, these departures are all subordinate to the prolonged F. E♭ is the tonal center for measures 95-134, although it does not appear as a strong bass note until measure 131. Measures 95-130 contain a mostly chromatic descent from C to E♭, where E♭ is anticipated throughout as a goal tone for the bass. Example 11 illustrates this structure. Immediately following the arrival of E♭ in the bass, C♯ (D♭) is established as the tonal center for the final transition to the second theme. The trombone motive in measures 134-141, shown in Example 12, is the subject of the fugato section in part 3 of the development, although its importance is downplayed here. Note that the initial G♯ is a pickup to the section in C♯, which fills in the whole-tone descent from E♭ to C♯ with the intervening fourth. This motive also contains the intervallic cell of the second head motive of the first theme in the form of G♯-C♯-B-E (with the addition of some passing tones), in addition to consisting largely of motion by perfect fourths.
            
               
            
            example 11: bass structure of the first theme group, measures 76-155
            
               
            
            example 12: measures 134-141 (trombone)
            Wilson claims that C and E♭ are “local dominants” to F in this first section of the exposition.
                  Wilson, 174.
                While the strong V-I motion from measures 90-91 does carry a tonal implication of dominant-tonic, such cadential bass motion does not imply anything about structural function in this context. E♭, furthermore, is not convincingly established as a dominant-functioning tone at all. The passage from measures 85-89 is centered on E♭ (and the pentatonic set from the opening of the exposition is transposed down a whole step), but its mere presence as local tonic does not signify any sort of dominant function. Rather, we can consider this occurrence of E♭ as a middleground-level whole-tone descent that foreshadows the structural descent to E♭ at measure 131 that is represented in Example 2. In measures 91-95, the bass descends F-E♭-D♭-C, which might seem to support C’s functioning as structural dominant. However, as previously mentioned, C acts as a “fake” dominant that in measures 149-155 actually functions as an upper neighbor to B, the “true” dominant. The descent in measures 91-95 in fact participates in the farce by projecting a descent ending on C, which makes the eventual reinterpretation of C and descent to B stronger. This creates both a smooth transition to the second theme and a strong sense that a new section is beginning, a combination that is generally rather difficult to forge.
            The second theme is tranquil and harmonically simple, which is in stark contrast to the first theme. B dominates as tonal center from measures 155-191 with little or no harmonic motion away from it. Measures 192-197 are in E♭, with the bass notes in the harp, and measures 198-209 are in D♭. A♭ intervenes between E♭ and D♭ in measure 195—another instance of the whole-tone being “filled in” by a fourth. The return to B in measure 210 is also filled-in in this way by F♯ in measures 208-209. Hence, measures 155-210 constitute the bass progression B-E♭-D♭-B; the same stepwise descent (E♭-D♭) occurred in the first theme group while F rather than B was being prolonged. Paul Wilson points out that “[i]n substituting for F within an analogous structure, B receives confirmation at this point as the crucial interior center of the movement.”
                  Wilson, 179.
                In our terminology, this is the point at which B is unequivocally established as the structural dominant.
            The Development
            As mentioned, the development is divided into three subsections. In Example 2, the entire development section is represented by exactly three pitches, and indeed each subsection is associated with one of these three pitches as its tonal center—none of these pitches is involved in the structural whole-tone descent. As Paul Wilson states, the development “is, for Bartók’s music, developmental in a relatively conventional way”; the themes from the exposition are expanded and modified, and tonalities other than those expected arise.
                  Wilson, 180.
                The only slight abnormality, though it is certainly not unheard of even in classical-period sonata movements, is the emergence of a new theme in the second section of the development. Although Wilson claims that this theme is based on “a transformation in rhythm and contour of the second head-motive of [the first-theme],”
                  Wilson, 182.
                there is no intervallic relationship between the two motives, and it is not clear what elements of a motive remain when rhythm, contour and interval content are changed. Furthermore, this section, being the middle section of the movement, upholds the formal symmetry if interpreted as its own theme.
            The first section of the development, measures 231-271, begins with a big D-minor chord which immediately establishes D as the tonal center for the section. Although it moves to E♭ minor in measure 239, it returns to D minor in measure 248, which suggests that E♭ is an upper neighbor prolonging D. The passage beginning at measure 248, shown in Example 13, can be considered to be the “theme” of this section, and is a development of the second head motive of the first theme. This motive undergoes inversion and extension throughout the section. While Wilson rightly identifies the resultant set of measures 261-264 as 6-Z50 ([014679]), identifying it as such does not offer much analytical insight until we point out that this is a simple extension of the intervallic sequence (+5, -2, +5) from the original motive.
            
               
            
            example 13: measures 248-264 (violins)
            The second section of the development is in C♯ (which is sometimes spelled D♭). This section is reproduced as Example 14. This section returns to the calm simplicity (and tempo) of the second section, though apart from affect there are no references to that section. Although the C♯ major chord in measure 293, preceded by A♭ major (V) in measure 285, suggests C♯ as tonal center, the tonality is not strongly established until measure 303. The arrival at C♯ was foreshadowed by the first two measures of the development (Example 15), which are almost a direct transposition of the two head motives of the first theme to C♯.
                  Because of its emphasis here in the development section and its position as leading to B in the second theme group, we could conceive of C# as a sub-dominant in this movement. As tempting as this interpretation may be, this observation is relegated to the notes section because it constitutes a horrible abuse of terminology—there is only so far that such tonal analogies can go before they begin to hide any true analytical insight behind misused terms.
               
            
            
               
            
            example 15: measures 231-232 (violins and trumpets)
            
            
               
            
            
            example 14: measures 272-313 (reduction): development, part 2
            The third section of the development takes the trombone motive from the transition between the first and second sections of the exposition shown in Example 12, transposed to begin on F, and turns it into a fugato sequence, reproduced in Example 17. The tonal center B♭ is established immediately in measures 316-318 by the strong V-I chord progression (Example 16). As previously mentioned, the fugato motive incorporates the motion by perfect fourths found in the Introduction as well as the intervallic cell found in the second head motive of the first theme. The resultant set is the pentatonic set F-B♭-E♭-A♭-D♭; the entire passage shown in Example 17 remains within this set. The second and fourth entrances of the fugato subject are transposed up a perfect fifth, but the first note is B♭ rather than C, which allows Bartók to remain in this pentatonic set (and also to reinforce B♭ as tonal center).
            
               
            
            example 16: measures 316-318: establishment of b♭
            The second instance of the fugato section, not reproduced in its entirety but based on the subject in Example 18, is an exact pitch inversion transposed to begin on C. The inversion blends seamlessly back into the original subject in measure 363. The following section (measures 363-389) especially brings out the quartal harmonies within the pentatonic set, so much so that B♭ is obscured as tonal center which allows A♭ to emerge as the goal tone of this section—only to be immediately reinterpreted as a leading tone to the A that begins the recapitulation. Both B♭ and A♭ are chromatic neighbors to A, which intensifies the arrival on A, and brings out the fact that the appearance of A continues the large-scale whole-tone descent that has been left stranded on B for the entire development section.
            
               
            
            example 17: measures 316-340 (brass): fugato section
            
               
            
            example 18: measures 342-349 (horns): inverted fugato subject
            The Recapitulation
            The recapitulation, as we have seen, presents the themes in reverse order. The second theme is initially presented in A, as part of the whole-tone descent, and proceeds directly to G, where it is restated slightly modified. It is worth pointing out that the arrival on G at measure 425 is led into by D, which constitutes another “filling in” of the whole-step by the intervening fourth. The A♯ in measure 438 might initially seem to be a new tonal area, but it leads to D in measure 444, which constitutes a V chord still applied to G. Rather than resolve this D back to G, however, Bartók shifts briefly to F♯ in measure 456 and leads to E in measure 467. E and F♯ are both active throughout the entire transition from second theme back to first theme (measures 456-487) which brings out their functions as upper and lower chromatic neighbors to F, which returns triumphantly in measure 488 with the much-anticipated recapitulation of the first theme.
            The return of the first theme is certainly immediately recognized as such; however, there are some important differences. Firstly, its initial appearance in the exposition had a minor flare to it; the first chord in Example 9 is an F-minor triad, and the first four notes of Example 8 ascend the F-minor scale. In the recapitulation of this theme, shown in Example 19, the first chord is an F-major chord, and the A♭ is replaced by A♮ in the melody. In fact, the chord progression of the first four measures of Example 19 can be thought of tonally as I-vi-V in F major—while we are reluctant to say that this passage is in major (the conspicuous A♭ in measure 490 easily brings doubt to this interpretation), we can certainly say that the minor flare of the beginning has been replaced by a major flare here in the recapitulation.
            In addition to the “mode”-shift, we notice that the metric dissonance shown in Examples 9 and 10 no longer appears (notice how regular the rhythm of the accompanying figure is in Example 19) and also that the written meter no longer changes. In other words, the piece, in becoming more regular, is beginning to drive towards the finish—because of the formal structure, the recapitulation of the first theme also serves as the closing section of the movement. Indeed, this section has the feel of a Coda to it—it is much shorter than any other major section or subsection, and the tonic harmony is active throughout. There are also no phrase divisions—the music simply drives forward with no pause until measure 514, where the fugato motive appears in the brass over an obvious V-I cadence, signaling the end of the movement which occurs as the motive completes.
            
               
            
            example 19: measures 488-494: the first theme in the recapitulation
            
               
            
            There is no fine line between music that is “tonal” and music that is “atonal.” Bartók is one of the many early-twentieth century composers whose music fits entirely in the gray area between tonality and atonality. While we know from his writings that he often composed with a tonal centers and relationships in mind, and that he regularly applied tonal structures and forms to his compositions, by merely glancing at any one of his pieces we can see that tonality as it is understood in the common practice period is not at work. Thanks largely to the work of tonal theorists such as Heinrich Schenker and others, we have a detailed system for analyzing tonal music—their system, however, is virtually useless in analyzing music that falls entirely on the atonal side of the spectrum. But if we apply it to music such as Bartók’s that is in the middle area, we can come up with some enlightening and perhaps unexpected results. To do so was the goal of this analysis of the first movement of the Concerto for Orchestra. By applying our tonal system to music that slips outside of the tonal realm, we not only find the elements of tonality that do remain, but we also pinpoint exactly when and how this music breaks from previous conventions. It is not disputed that Bartók’s music has great expressive power—perhaps now we can understand why.
            References
            Antokoletz, Elliot. The Music of Béla Bartók: A Study of Tonality and Progression in Twentieth-Century Music. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1992.
            Bartók, Béla. Essays. Selected and Edited by Benjamin Suchoff. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1976.
            Bernard, Jonathan W. “Space and Symmetry in Bartók.” Journal of Music Theory 30 (1986): 185-201.
            ________. “Zones of Impingement: Two Movements from Bartók’s Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta.” Music Theory Spectrum 25 (2003): 3-34.
            Berry, Wallace. “Symmetrical Interval sets and Derivative Pitch Materials in Bartók’s String Quartet No. 3.” Perspectives of New Music 18 (1979/80): 287-379.
            Cohn, Richard. “Inversional Symmetry and Transpositional Combination in Bartók.” Music Theory Spectrum 10 (1988): 19-42.
            ________. “Bartók’s Octatonic Strategies: A Motivic Approach.” Journal of the American Musicological Society 44 (1991): 262-300.
            Morrison, Charles D. “Prolongation in the Final Movement of Bartók’s String Quartet No. 4.” Music Theory Spectrum 13 (1991): 179-196.
            Travis, Roy. “Tonal Coherence in the First Movement of Bartók’s Fourth String Quartet.” The Music Forum 2 (1970): 298-371.
            Wilson, Paul. The Music of Béla Bartók. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1992.
         
      
      
   

   
      
         
            Lauren Ballinger
            05/12/08
          
            Reaching Transcendence through the Elimination of color:
            The Ideal Minimalism of Black and White

            The world is made up of a myriad of colors. color gives distinction to our life, it
               gives flavor and meaning. What would our lives be without color? At the same time in
               our modern society, color has been seen as an external threat to be purged from the
               enlightened mind and space. color is seen as corrupting, intoxicating, disorienting
               and in art, has come to be associated with the vulgar and the kitsch. We went from
               times of celebrating color and decoration to one of minimalism where black and white
               were placed at the front as representations of modernity and ultimate transcendence.
               What is the significance for this preference for black and white when it comes to
               high art? Why in a world filled with color do we feel the need to purge it from our
               space? What exactly is the debate between colorlessness vs color and more
               specifically can black and white be considered non-colors? 
            Ever since the dawn of man, human society has evolved in ways which attempt to
               ultimately control nature. Seeing as color is something of the natural world, age
               old and archaic, washing it away from our lives is the ultimate form of rising above
               the physical world. “Intelligent beings have a language represented by articulate
               sounds; organized beings, like all animals and vegetables, express themselves by
               cries or forms, contour or carriage. Inorganic nature has only the language of
               color. It is by color alone that a certain stone tells us it is a sapphire or
               emerald… color, then, is the peculiar characteristic of the lower forms of nature,
               while drawing becomes the medium of expression, more and more dominant, the higher we
               rise in the scale of being”(Blanc, Chromophobia, p.25). The history of color is
               about the ways in which man has tried to find the ideal state of being throughout the
               ages. 
            In the Far East, reaching a state of colorless-ness is associated with the highest
               state of spiritual being, the state of Zen. What is typical of this sort of ascetism
               is the art of expressing as much as possible using the minimum as an ideal. This is
               apparent through Japanese haiku as well as the art of ink painting in both China and
               Japan. For them, reaching the greatest depths of spirituality demanded expression in
               its most minimal form. This reduction of color and expression proved the purity the
               artist had reached within himself, it was a means of reducing down to the essence of
               a thing. 
            In the Elimination of color in the Far East, Izutsu explains though how this
               ultimate state of minimalism can only be reached through an appreciation and fine
               knowledge of color. “This artistic acestism, i.e., the suppression of externals and
               the reduction of all colors to black and white, manifests its real aesthetic
               function only against the background of a highly refined sensibility for colors and
               their subtle hues. In other words, the true profundity of the beauty of black and
               white is disclosed only to those eyes that are able to appreciate the splendors of
               sumptuous and glowing colors with all their delicate shades and tints”(Izutsu, p.
               169). For black and white can only be seen as distinguishing against a background of
               color and for this very reason one can assert that both black and white are colors
               in themselves as non-colors. 
            It is through the absence of color that one brings to mind the colors that are no
               longer present. It is up to the mind to fill in the blank space. Without color one
               could not appreciate the purity of the black and white space. colorlessness needs
               color in order to for the full aesthetic experience to take place. “That is to say,
               under the total absence of color, there is a vague reminiscence of all colors that
               have been “killed”(Izutsu, p. 177). Black and white are the consummation of all
               colors into one. “Black is life; it is the infinite possibility of expression and
               development. Black here is not sheer black. For in it’s negation of all colors, all
               colors are positively affirmed”(Izutsu, p. 193). It is through these means that one
               finds the essence in a thing. 
            In Western society, this purging of color began with the rejection of ideals of
               generations past. Eliminating color was a way of eliminating the decadence of the
               18th century. Society turned to minimalism as a way of cleansing life, representing
               modernity. color became a moral issue, seen as something sensuous and dangerous in
               its secondary nature to the essence of life and form. “The predominance of color at
               the expense of drawing is a usurpation of the relative over the absolute, of fleeting
               appearance over permanent form, of physical impression over the empire of the
               soul”(Chromophobia, p. 28). color rests on the surface of an object, it is
               superficial, cosmetic and therefore deceptive since it hides the true nature of that
               thing. 
            color is associated with the Fall from Grace. It is something which speaks to the
               senses, not the mind, it is external and therefore secondary to life. It deals with
               the body, emotions, not the intellect. It strays from reason in the way which it
               consumes and manipulates life. “color was a permanent internal threat, an
               ever-present inner other which, if unleashed, would be the ruin of everything, the
               fall of culture. For [Charles Blanc] color also represents a kind of ruination.
               color for him signifies the mythical savage state out of which civilization, the
               nobility of the human spirit, slowly, heroically, has lifted itself – but back into
               which it could always slide”(Chromophobia, p. 23). It is a descent in the way it
               makes one lose consciousness and enter into the physical world of desire, and to
               desire is to lose control over oneself. Thus, began the cult of the black and white. 
            White is seen as representing spirituality, the heavens, and light, it is all which
               is modern, it signifies the opposite of the carnal nature of color. It is the
               control of nature, and the body and represents the modern man. 
            “WHITE is the spiritual color of our times, the clearness which directs all out
               actions. It is neither grey white, nor vory white, but pure white. 
            WHITE is the color of modern times, the color which dissipates a whole era; our era
               is perfection, purity, certitude.
            WHITE It includes everything.
            We have superceded both the ‘brown’ of decadence and classiscm and the ‘blue’ of
               divisionism, the cult of the blue ky, the gods with green beards and the
               spectrum.
            WHITE pure white.”(Chromophobia, p. 47). 
            For these reasons black and white have been placed at the top of the hierarchy of
               colors. Abolishing color means controlling color. “The white surface exposes
               color, presents it for disciplining. It keeps an eye on all the objects it frames.
               But before that, it keeps an eye on itself, watching its freshly laundered and neatly
               folded fabric for the stain of color”(Wigly, p. 151). colorlessness is not natural,
               and thus proves man’s superiority over this world. 
            On the other hand, we need color in order to distinguish black and white. Just as
               those from the Far East, the purity of white implies what has been washed away and
               thus makes the white glitter even more. White and black stand out because of color,
               and color stand out because of white and black. They are linked intrinsically
               together, one cannot go without the other. “White is the setting for color.. In a
               mosque for example, the architectonic effect of its white garment is assisted by a
               strategic use of color: “All these things are clothed in a majestic coat of
               whitewash. The forms stand out clearly; the impeccable construction displays all its
               boldness. At times a high stylobate of delightful ceramic produces a blue vibration.”
               The sensuous vibration of the color clarifies the white surface whose limit it
               marks”(Wigley, p. 209). We need this opposition between color and ‘non-color’ to make
               distinction between the two, otherwise neither would hold such significance. White
               helps to harmonize colors that would otherwise clash, it brings together and unites.
               “White expresses a certain incorporeality. The use of white is therefore decisive for
               the bodily appearance of a space. Concrete bodies decrease the space more or less
               depending on their color value. Against white, one can actually establish the
               intensity of clashing colors; white determines the tone in the first place. Because
               of this it is possible to take up any given colors and make them harmonize”(Wigley,
               p. 311). 
            For this reason white walls are favored over colored ones for both galleries and
               architectural spaces. The white of the walls intensifies the color of what is set
               before them. It stabilizes and controls forms because it brings to light the contours
               of the space. “In the white painted room the clarity of spatial sensation and
               disposition was surest and most convincing, all the details of the form and color of
               the furnishings could be developed undisturbed in front of this background…In this a
               form was discovered which was completely convincing in its simplicity and which could
               be seen as one of the essential formulas for wall treatment in “closed”
               spaces”(Wigley, p. 313). 
            There is another important aspect which white is representative of, and that is the
               well educated and socially elite. In the 19th century it became fashionable for
               bourgeois women to dress in white, while men dressed in black (Wigley). These
               distinctions proved a certain rational order, only attained by those able to afford
               of it. White walls, white clothing, they both require much more maintenance than
               something colored where a stain can merely hide away among the other colors. Crisp
               whiteness on the other hand expresses a sort of luxury, and leisure. White clothing
               proved that someone was of a level of society in which they were not forced to work,
               for the clothing would immediately become soiled if not and thus the reason why women
               who were the ones to stay at home dressed in all white, while men who were the ones
               to go out and work wore black, for black did in fact hide stains. 
            The same goes with white walls, in their impeccability it proved to whoever, that the
               owner could afford to not live actually live in this space, or could afford more
               simply for the upkeep and constant fresh coats of paint. Both as well were signs of
               the modern age man had reached. “Pure white was de rigueur, partly because of its
               exciting novelty, partly because it emphasized the smoothly mechanical texture, and
               pointed the contrast between it and surrounding nature”(Wigley, p. xvii). The use of
               white was proof that man had conquered nature. 
            The use of white and black in dress and architecture also became a way of
               distinguishing oneself from the vulgar, normal, lower classes. “..it is also worthy
               of remark, that savage nations, uneducated people, and children have a great
               predilection for vivid colors; that animals are excited to rage by certain colors;
               that people of refinement avoid vivid colors in their dress and the objects that are
               about them, and seem inclined to banish them altogether from their
               presence”(Chromophobia, p. 112). Furthermore, with the advent of industrialization
               the invention of new synthetic dyes meant that color in dress became democratized for
               all classes. Now, anyone could afford to wear colorful clothing and the masses began
               to dress themselves in what once would have been inconceivable to them. 
            Thus said, the use of black in white in wardrobe perhaps was a way for the new
               bourgeoisie to distinguish themselves from the decadence of the upper class and the
               vulgarity from the low. “In the prevailing styles of the European bourgeoisie, there
               long survived a tendency to limit the use of color, with strong emphasis on what are
               generally thought of as non colors, such as white, black and gray”(The Style Engine,
               p. 40). Another reason why it is believed that the bourgeoisie took preference in
               black and white is because of the Victorian sobriety of the age and their obsession
               with purity and cleanliness. Wearing black and white also marked the distinction of
               labor between men and women and in a highly rigid and segmented society, the wearing
               of different colors seemed the most obvious way to do so. This simplicity of dress
               was seen as a mark of the modern man. 
            Other major technologies during the age of industrialization also had an effect on
               this preference for black and white. Photography took over as a means of portraiture
               for the bourgeois and the upper class and despite the fact that it was possible to
               color the photographs, for the most part they were left in black and white because it
               was seen as more “natural”. Above all, it is believed that the expanse of literacy
               and the printed word, mainly the newspaper, had a profound effect in influencing the
               choice of black and white. “This world was viewed as orderly and relatively uniform,
               a world in “black and white”. This led to the idea of writing = rationality =
               production that confined images, especially images in color, to the emerging field of
               “art”, which was understood as an essential activity but one that was essentially
               unproductive, while it assigned to the two-toned and orderly world of printed paper
               the role of a daily guide to existence”(The Style Engine, p. 42). The world of print
               was therefore seen as something serious for the modern man. 
            Black and white became a symbol for the superiority of man’s intellect and
               technology. This then translated down into the world of fashion, as seen with the
               distinction between black and white clothing, as well as art, namely photography but
               also film and as discussed before architecture and gallery space. 
            Seeing as since the time of Aristotle, form was valued over that of color, the arts
               which did not require color to be enjoyed were perceived to be that of a higher form.
               The explosion of mass production and printing allowed for a plethora of colorful
               advertising and consumer goods which came to be known as kitsch. “Kitsch is a product
               of the industrial revolution which urbanized the masses of Western Europe and America
               and established what is called universal literacy”(Greenberg). In order to meet the
               demand of mass markets cheap and bright things of little use were made to attract the
               attention of consumers. Kitsch made cheap what once was truly cultural by the way it
               reproduced it d infinitum. Greenberg continues by saying, “Kitsch, using for raw
               material the debased and academicized simulacra of genuine culture, welcomes and
               cultivates this insensibility. It is the source of its profits. Kitsch is mechanical
               and operates by formulas. Kitsch is vicarious experience and faked sensations. Kitsch
               changes according to style, but remains always the same. Kitsch is the epitome of all
               that is spurious in the life of our times. Kitsch pretends to demand nothing of its
               customers except their money -- not even their time”. With the advent of kitsch came
               a great need for the distinction between higher and lower artforms. Avant guard at
               the time was considered to be true art, while this kitsch was simply pure imitation. 
            Thus said, this along with the influence of black and white print perhaps was the
               cause for the belief that which was black and white was deemed a serious, high art,
               while that which was colorful was mere rubbish and imitation for the lower classes.
               Of course during the early stages of color film and photography, the quality was so
               poor that it gave a cheap look, whereas black and white film really allowed one to
               see the light and the shadows in the images. For the play of light and form was key
               in demonstrating the true art form. That was what made up the essence of an image,
               not the artificial, or superficial filling in of form with color. Color was thought
               to distract the viewer from the soul of the image. 
            These beliefs have changed since color technology as tweeked to the point of being
               almost better than reality. Still though black and white is seen as something of a
               more sober tradition. Photographers still use black and white and white is still the
               most widely used color for walls within gallery spaces. These non colors allow for
               the appreciation of color. When something is black and white, it allows the mind to
               fill in and imagine for itself the amazing colors that must exist beyond the screen.
               Many actually complained with the invention of color in movies that this stunted the
               mind since one was forced to look at the garish colors placed before them. It is for
               this reason that ultimately the use of black and white is seen as more of an
               intellectual process. It forces one to imagine, it forces one to delve into the core
               of the object. Whether it mean going beyond the mind or simply the purity of non
               color, the use of black and white has been debated over for the last hundred years.
               Now we have entered an era where we are seeing once again more color, but perhaps it
               is human instinct, to want to surpass and rebel against generations before, so
               possibly we shall return to a state of non color veneration. Thus is the ebb and
               flow of life. 

         
      
   

   
      
         
            The debate over homosexuality has been one of the most long-lasting and controversial
               ones ever. What, exactly, causes homosexuality? Some would say it is a gene, passed
               on from parents to child. Others would argue that it is a result of a child’s
               upbringing. Still more would claim that it is a mental illness that can and should be
               cured. Perhaps then, it is a combination of some of these? No one knows for sure, and
               it is possible no one ever will, but that surely does not stop everyone from coming
               up with their own theories and beliefs on the matter.
            Documented homosexuality dates as far back as ancient Greece and other cultures of
               the time, where it was considered to be a very normal and natural occurrence (Emond).
               In his book The Symposium, Plato wrote “Those who are halves of a man whole pursue
               males, and being slices, so to speak, of the male, love men throughout their boyhood,
               and take pleasure in physical contact with men” (qtd. in Isay 11). This shows that
               not only did Plato consider it normal for a male to be attracted to another male, he
               also believed that it began at a very young age, as the word “boyhood” signifies. In
               fact, Plato even considered love between two members of the same sex to be the only
               “real and lasting love” and necessary for democracy. Furthermore, there were many
               occurrences of homosexual behavior in Greek mythology; Hercules is rumored to have
               had 14 male lovers, and Zeus himself partook in such behavior. Even Homer wrote about
               Achilles and Patroclus, who have been considered to be the perfect model of true love
               (Emond).
            But it was not until 1869 that the term “homosexual” was first used, to describe “a
               man or woman whose feelings of sexual attraction are for someone of the same sex”
               (Marcus 1). (However, for the purposes of this paper, homosexuality will be looked at
               solely in terms of men). At this point in time, Karl Maria Kertbeny used the word in
               a pamphlet which fought to repeal the current antihomosexual laws of Prussia.
               Kertbeny derived this word from the Greek word for “same” and the Latin word for
               “sex,” whereas a heterosexual is a person” whose feelings of sexual attraction are
               for the opposite sex” (Marcus 1).
            It was also in the 1800s when the debate itself over the cause of homosexuality was
               started by Magnus Hirschfeld, a physician, sex researcher, leading sexologist,
               homosexual, and founder of the first gay rights movement in Germany, who believed
               that homosexuality was biological in nature (Marcus 10). Hirschfeld also founded the
               Scientific Humanitarian committee, which was mostly homosexual, in 1897. The
               committee published many books and other forms of literature, which gave Hirschfeld a
               great amount of prestige in his field. He became known as one of the founding fathers
               of sexology, and furthered this position when he opened the world’s first sexological
               institute, the institute for Sexual Science in Berlin, in 1919, which was destroyed
               by the Nazis 15 years later. Hirschfeld largely supported the Urning theory of Karl
               Ulrichs, with minor additions; he believed in some hormonal theories as a cause of
               homosexuality, but this only led to unsuccessful attempts to “cure” homosexuals with
               the use of hormone injections. This theory, which defined Urnings as males who turned
               to other males as sexual partners, was published in twelve pamphlets by Ulrichs,
               starting in1864. The first, Vindex, defended Urnings, while the second, Inclusa,
               which followed shortly after, described the first scientific theory of homoerotic
               desire. Ulrichs believed that Urnings were attracted to other males because they were
               “hermaphrodites of the mind,” meaning while they may have been male in body, they
               were female in soul and mind, leading them to be naturally attracted to males in
               terms of sexual partners. This, he claimed, made laws such as paragraph 175, a law
               adopted by King William I throughout the German Kingdoms at the time of their
               unification which forbade sex between males, and forced criminal penalties upon
               individuals partaking in such behavior, unfair and unreasonable . Ulrichs claimed
               that the origin of such a disposition was natural and inborn (Wikholm).
            A couple thousand years after Plato and Homer, Sigmund Freud still believed
               homosexuality to be a natural behavior. In an interview in 1903, he professed his
               beliefs: “I am… of the firm conviction that homosexuals must not be treated as sick
               people… Homosexual persons are not sick. They also do not belong in a court of law!”
               (qtd. in Isay 3). In 1935, he furthered his claims when he wrote a now famous “Letter
               to an American Mother” of a homosexual, which stated that “Homosexuality is assuredly
               no advantage, but is nothing to be ashamed of, no vice, no degradation, it cannot be
               classified as an illness… Many highly respectable individuals of ancient and modern
               times have been homosexuals” (qtd. in Isay 3).
            However, the general public of the 1800s and early 1900s, including the medical
               professionals, regarded homosexuality as a curable mental illness. Treatments such as
               castration, hysterectomy, lobotomy, and electroshock therapy were used as attempted
               cures. By the mid 1900s, psychotherapy became the most common “cure,” and many
               homosexuals spent countless hours being analyzed in hopes of changing their sexual
               preference (Dudley 125).
            Dr. Evelyn Hooker, a heterosexual psychologist, conducted a ground-breaking study in
               the mid 1950s that went along similar reasoning as Freud. In this courageous
               experiment, Hooker compared the psychological profiles of sixty men, half homosexual
               and half heterosexual. She disagreed with the popular belief at the time that
               homosexuality was a mental illness, and concluded that there was no significant
               psychological difference between homosexual and heterosexual men; “gay” men were no
               more insane than their “straight” counterparts (Marcus 183).
            Fortunately, many prominent psychiatrists also believed that homosexuality was not an
               illness, and their lobbying, along with the innovative study performed by Hooker, who
               has been referred to as “the Rosa Parks of the gay movement” convinced the American
               Psychiatric Association Board of Trustees to vote to remove homosexuality from the
               Diagnostic and Statistical Manual as a mental illness in December of 1973. Just over
               a year later, the American Psychological Association also removed homosexuality from
               their list of mental illnesses (Marcus 11). The American Psychological Association
               further reiterated this belief when an overwhelming majority of the Council of
               Representatives adopted the Resolution on Appropriate Therapeutic Responses to Sexual
               Orientation in 1997, which publicly chastised those who attempted to “cure”
               homosexuality by means of various forms of treatment. It stated, rather that
               homosexuality was merely a difference in the opinion and values of the common person,
               but must still be respected as an individual orientation, and thus treated as one
               (Resolution on Appropriate Therapeutic Responses to Sexual Orientation).
            Perhaps one of the most famous studies on this topic was concluded in 1991 by Michael
               Bailey, an assistant professor of psychology at Northwestern University, and Richard
               Pillard, an associate professor of psychiatry at Boston University School of
               Medicine, and found that sexual orientation in males is largely due to genetics. For
               two years, these men studied the number of occurrences of homosexuality in both
               monozygotic, or identical twins (a set of twins coming from the same fertilized egg
               and thus having identical DNA), and dizygotic, or fraternal twins (a set of twins
               from too separate zygotes, causing them to have similar DNA, but not any more so than
               that of two ordinary siblings), in addition to adoptive brothers of gay males
               (meaning that all of these males would have been raised in the same environment). In
               total, 110 pairs of twins (identical and fraternal) and 142 sets of male and their
               adopted brothers were studied, where at least one of the two had been classified as
               homosexual, either by self-identification or other means. Out of the 56 homosexual
               males who had identical twins, 29, or approximately 52 % of their identical twin
               brothers were also found to be homosexual, as compared to only 12, or approximately
               22 % of the 54 non-identical twins of homosexual males, and 6, or approximately 11 %
               of the 57 adopted brothers of homosexual males who were unrelated in terms of
               genetics. Strangely enough, the study also included pairs of biological brothers that
               were not twins, and out of the 142 homosexual males studied, only 14, or about 9 %,
               had homosexual brothers, which is approximately the normal statistical incidence of
               homosexuality in the general population (Bailey & Pillard).
            More and more people are beginning to believe that homosexuality is not a “choice,”
               but rather a feeling that one is born with. As one grows older, they become aware of
               sexual feelings towards other persons. The only difference between homosexuals and
               heterosexuals is that while heterosexuals are attracted to members of the opposite
               sex, homosexuals are attracted to those of the same sex. Therefore, neither
               homosexuals nor heterosexuals really have a “choice” in the matter, and asking a
               homosexual “Why are you attracted to other members of your sex” is likened to asking
               a heterosexual “Why are you attracted to members of the opposite sex?” After all, why
               would anyone choose such a difficult lifestyle? As a homosexual, one risks horrifying
               their parents, other family members, and friends to the point of losing all contact
               with them, ruining their career, being condemned by their religion, being beat up for
               publicly displaying their sexuality, and much much more. Rather, the only actual
               choice is whether or not to be open with one’s sexuality and sexual preference;
               whether to act on one’s sexual desires, whether to tell others about such feelings,
               or whether to live a whole life as a lie and suppress these attractions (Marcus
               9).
            To supplement my findings from research, I have conducted personal interviews with
               two adolescent homosexual males, James Dobbens and Daniel Woods. Both were asked how
               what they thought determined homosexuality (nature vs. nurture) and why, when they
               realized they were homosexual and how they knew, and similar questions. Both believed
               that homosexual was a result of nature, rather than nurture (Dobbens & Woods).
               Dobbens reasoned that most parents would not raise their children to be homosexual;
               “They’re not like ‘My child’s going to be gay!”’ (Dobbens). Dobbens believes that he
               was born homosexual. When why he was a homosexual, he explained “It’s just the way
               you are, you can’t explain it, I was just born that way, it’s like asking how the
               world was made – no one really knows” (Dobbens). He went on to explain that while his
               nurture did not impact his sexual orientation, it did affect his view of it. When
               discussing the role of parents and upbringing in a child’s sexuality, he commented
               “They can bring you up [to be] open minded to [homosexuality], but they don’t bring
               you up [to be a homosexual]… I grew up in a place where [homosexuality is accepted],
               so that’s why I’m so open about being gay; I accept myself… [Whether or not you
               accept homosexuality and can be honest with yourself if you are homosexual] depends
               on how you’re brought up” (Dobbens). Woods generally agreed with Dobbens, and
               justified his belief that homosexuality was caused by one’s nature, rather than
               nurture, when he commented that “there’s nothing in my upbringing that exposed me to
               anything like [homosexuality]” (Woods). When asked why he was gay, he explained that
               it is simply “something that I can’t help… embedded in my head; nothing made me do
               it” (Woods). He went on to explain that it the same thing as the primitive attraction
               between males and females, only it was between males and other males. He added that
               “nothing happened [to make me homosexual]; it’s always been there. I’ve always been
               attracted to guys” (Woods). What I find to be extraordinary about Woods’ case is that
               he remarked how while he has always been sexually attracted go guys, he is
               romantically attracted to women in the sense that he has always wanted a girlfriend
               and to be close with other females, etc… but never in a sexual sense. Though he has
               “always kind of fantasized about getting married [to a female],” these feelings come
               from his “romantic side, which is different from the sexual side” (Woods). He says
               that if he married a female with which he shared a strong trust, maybe he could work
               it out. He then went back to talk about homosexuality as in innate characteristic;
               “It’s like race. It’s all something you can’t help; it all comes to you… It’s
               internal, you can’t help it” (Woods). When asked if he thought homosexuality was
               caused by a gene, he commented that he thought that it was more of an instinct. He
               gave the example of birds, which are born with instincts such as knowing how to build
               a next, or catch their prey. Woods also thought that maybe it was caused by something
               in the development of the embryo. All in all, Woods views homosexuality as
               “fascinating.” His final thought: “I also believe everyone has at least one
               homosexual attraction. It’s not black and white [homosexual vs. heterosexual]; it’s a
               spectrum” (Woods).
            Yet there are arguments against homosexuality as caused by genetics. According to
               Darwin’s theory of natural selection, the advantageous traits are passed on, while
               the disadvantageous ones eventually die out. For instance, heterosexual males have an
               average of five times as many children as homosexual ones, as a female is required to
               reproduce children, yet homosexuals are, by definition, not sexually attracted to
               females. Therefore, from the evolutionary standpoint, homosexuality becomes one of
               the disadvantageous traits. Because consequently heterosexual men contribute five
               times as much genetic information to the next the gene pool, if homosexuality was
               indeed caused by a gene, it would have died out entirely by now, or at least been
               reduced immensely in the number of occurrences. Since neither of these events have
               yet taken place, it can be concluded that homosexuality is not caused by a gene
               (Fulkerson).
            My findings throughout my research have led me to conclude that there is no
               definitive answer on what causes homosexuality. No one knows for sure now (although
               many think they do), and perhaps no one ever will know the whole truth. Nonetheless,
               I am apt to believe that homosexuality is the product of some kind of combination of
               genetic and environmental causes. Perhaps one may have a genetic predisposition
               towards homosexuality that has been passed on from previous generations. However this
               does not necessarily determine a homosexual; rather this predisposition must be
               triggered by environmental factors. This is why Bailey and Pillard found in their
               study that while they was a greatly elevated chance that two males sharing the same
               genetic makeup would also share the same sexuality, this was not the case 100 % of
               the time. This seems to be the most likely explanation as of now, but even as I write
               this, new studies are being done. Perhaps the truth is right around the corner.
            
               Works Cited 
               APA Online. 2003. American Psychological Association. <http://www.apa.org>. 
               Bailey, J. M., and R. C. Pillard. "A Genetic Study of Male Sexual Orientation."
                  Archives of General Psychiatry 1089-1096 (1991). 
               Dobbens, James B. Telephone interview. 6 June 2002. 
               Emond, Charles. Mountain Pride Media. June 1999.
                  <http://www.mountainpridemedia.org>. 
               Fulkerson, Richard. Nature and Nurture. 15 Dec. 1999. Iowa State University.
                  <http://www.public.iastate.edu>. 
               Homosexuality. Ed. William Dudley. San Diego: Greenhaven P, 1993. 
               Isay, Richard A. Being Homosexual. New York: Farrar Straus Giroux, 1989. 
               Marcus, Eric. Is it a Choice? San Francisco: HarperCollins, 1993. 
               Wikholm, Andrew. gayhistory.com. 1998. <http://www.gayhistory.com>. 
               Woods, Daniel S. Telephone interview. 6 June 2002. 
            
         
      
   

   
      
         
            Amanda Bates
            November 11, 2008
            Madame White Snake: East Asian Femme Fatale of Old
            The Chinese legend of Madame White Snake, the snake demon that takes human form and
               becomes the wife of a man, has exerted a lasting influence over East Asian folktales
               and fiction for centuries. Two quintessential novellas, “The Lust of the White
               Serpant” from Ugetsu Monogatari by the Japanese author Ueda Akinari and “Eternal
               Prisoner under Thunder Peak Pagoda” a traditional Chinese story, are both relatively
               complex and demonstrate not only the evolution of the White Snake figure to become a
               more believable human, but also what aspects may have given her enduring appeal.
               While both these stories are ostensibly morality tales about the dangerous beauty of
               this femme fatale, the true source of pleasure from these narratives is the femme
               fatale’s transgressive behavior, not her eventual punishment for it.
            Early tales of Madame White Snake appeared in China as early as the Song Dynasty, and
               initially her portrayal was fairly direct, as a villainous demon who drains the life
               force out of her human husband.
                  Lai, Whalen. "From Folklore to Literate Theater: Unpacking "Madame White
                     Snake"." Asian Folklore Studies 51, no. 1 (1992): 52.
                But over time, characterizations of her became more complex, and the persona
               of Madame White Snake became more sympathetic, and perhaps even a model of the ideal
               Confucian wife, particularly in “Pagoda”. Whalen Lai notes, “She was a loving wife, a
               caring mother, rescuer of her family from the first flood, and, at that point, a
               general benefactor of man. She took on the virtues of a traditional Chinese female,
               particularly forbearance”.
                  Ibid., 53.
                But if she were really an ideal wife, why could she not live happily with her
               human mate? Her dangerous sexuality is the key.
            Femme fatale might seem an unusual term to apply to a character from pre-modern
               Chinese and Japanese literature who may exemplify the virtues of an ideal Confucian
               wife, since it is primarily associated with film characters, particularly those of
               the film noir genre. But this term, which is relatively speaking, a neologism (The
               earliest uses were around the beginning of the 20th century
                  Oxford English Dictionary, “Femme, ” Oxford University Press,
                     http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/50083541/50083541se3?single=1&query_type=word&queryword=femme+fatale&first=1&max_to_show=10&hilite=50083541se3
               ), is an apt description of the depiction of Madame White Snake and all her
               incarnations. It refers to a woman who is dangerously attractive, and lures men to
               their downfall with her sexual attractiveness. In both incarnations of Madame White
               snake, the authors depict her as bewitchingly beautiful. Toyoo, her human lover in
               “Lust of the White Serpant” cannot shake the image of her beauty from his mind and
               dreams of her, and finds himself “disturbed and agitated” by her “ethereal
                  beauty”.
                  Ueda, Akinari. Ugetsu Monogatari : Tales of Moonlight and Rain : A Complete
                     English Version of the Eighteenth-Century Japanese Collection of Tales of the
                     Supernatural. Vancouver: University of British Columbia Press, 1974,
                     162-164.
                In “Eternal Prisoner,” Madame White Snake’s bewitching beauty follows her
               lover Hsü into his dreams, and the next morning “he was so distracted that he could
               not concentrate on doing business.”
                  “Eternal Prisoner under the Thunder Peak Pagoda.” Trans. Diana Yu, in Y. W. Ma
                     and Joseph S. M. Lau. Traditional Chinese Stories : Themes and Variations.
                     Boston: Zheng & Zui Co, 1986, 358.
                Both of these stories align negative connotations with her beauty, suggesting
               that her sexuality is the cause of their distraction.
            In addition to distracting sexuality, the irregular characterization of Madame White
               Snake might be another trait her character has in common with the archetypical noir
               femme fatale. In her essay analyzing the noir film from a feminist perspective,
               Christine Gledhill writes “Not only is the hero frequently not sure whether the woman
               is honest or a deceiver, but the heroine’s characterisation is itself fractured so
               that it is not evident to the audience whether she fills the [femme fatale]
               stereotype or not”.
                  Christine Gledhill, “Klute 1: A Contemporary Film Noir and Feminist Criticism,”
                     in Feminism and Film, ed. E. Ann Kaplan (New York: Oxford University Press,
                     2004), 81.
                While both stories each characterize Madame White Snake fairly consistently
               within their narratives, the uneven characterization in film noir perhaps mirrors the
               evolution of her character over time: readers may not be sure whether she is a pure
               villainess or whether she is a good wife who is badly treated by society, because
               there is evidence of both throughout her legend. She is a loyal wife to her husband
               as she has promised, but she also causes him to find trouble with the law and
               deceives him about her supernatural nature.
            The complications in her character serve to undercut the ostensible didactic intent
               of these stories. A simple reading of the story might produce the idea that Madame
               White Snake represents dangerous female aggression and sexuality that traps the man,
               and she must be defeated and punished by society. This is quite similar to the
               expected end for the femme fatal character in films - she is punished in some way so
               that social order and proper gender roles are restored. In both stories, Madame White
               Snake’s secret is uncovered and a monk comes to exorcise her, and she is eventually
               rendered powerless and trapped under a pagoda. Her husband becomes a monk, and this
               further implicates Lady White Snake, this time from a Buddhist perspective. Female
               beauty is a dangerous thing that ties men to the transitory world and prohibits them
               from being free from desire and ascending to Nirvana. Furthermore, Lady White Snake’s
               lover is far from the ideal man. He is weak-willed and not particularly useful. In
               “Lust,” the priest informs Toyoo “Those creatures took advantage of your fair looks
               and tempted you. But you, yourself, owing to a lack of courage and spirit, fell
               victim to their temporary form” 
                  Ugetsu Monogatari, 177-178.
               . The implications of this are that a stronger, more capable man would not
               fall for the Lady’s trickery. But are the morals of these stories entirely sincere?
               If they were, Madame White Snake would be unmistakably depicted as an evil
               character.
            Instead, both these stories feature many moments where readers have great sympathy
               for her, despite her depraved sexuality. Certainly, readers admire her patience and
               loyalty: “I searched everywhere, and now that at last I’ve found you, I’m very
                  happy,”
                  Ibid.,173.
                she gushes to him in “Lust.” Readers must also acknowledge that her human
               lover is breaking his promise to her when he leaves her. She pleads with him, “We
               have a love bond between us, as constant as the T’ai Mountains and the Eastern Sea,
               and we must live and die together. Please, since we are already married, take me
               back, and let’s stay together the rest of our lives. Wouldn’t that be
                  wonderful?”
                  “Eternal Prisoner,” 369.
                In another traditional vernacular story, “Tsu Shih-Niang Sinks the Jewel Box
               in Anger,
                  “Tu Shih-Niang Sinks the Jew Box in Anger,” trans, Richard M. W. Ho, in Y. W.
                     Ma and Joseph S. M. Lau. Traditional Chinese Stories : Themes and Variations.
                     Boston: Zheng & Zui Co, 1986, 358.
               ” the male protagonist breaks a promise he made to his concubine lover, and
               suffers for it, suggesting that traditionally, loyalty and keeping ones word was
               valued on the man’s part as well as a woman’s. So her husband’s failure to follow
               through on his end of the bargain, completely forgetting the love he once had for
               her, makes readers more sympathetic to Madame White Snake’s plight. 
            However, no matter how much sympathy Madame White Snake may gather from readers, the
               story still ends with her trapped under the pagoda. These stories draw from the long
               tradition of supernatural and ghost stories, which usually end with the demon
               destroyed or at least subdued. In the initial versions of this story Madame White
               Snake harmed her human lover, so her entrapment under a pagoda by a Taoist monk or
               later, a Buddhist monk
                  Lai, 53.
                would have been a satisfying ending. Readers of early versions of the story
               might have been cheering for the defeat of this demon disguised as a beauty, and
               would have enjoyed reading the stories for the lurid horror details and later her
               crushing defeat. Conversely, the authors of the two stories examined here do not give
               readers motivation to wish for the death of Madame White Snake, so the pleasure of
               the narrative - to borrow appropriate phrasing from film theory - comes not from the
               death of the insubordinate, disruptive force, from watching the transgressions
               themselves. 
            In an essay on the femme fatale heroines of film noir, Janey Place argues that the
               strong behavior of the female characters supersedes the moral lessons supposedly
               imparted by their morals at the end. She writes, “the final ‘lesson’ of the myth
               often fades into the background and we retain the image of the erotic, strong,
               unrepressed (if destructive) woman.”
                  Janey Place, “Women in Film Noir” in Women in Film Noir, ed. E. Ann Kaplan
                     (London: British Film Institute, 2003), 48.
                In these two stories, the femme fatale Madame White Snake is going to live on
               in the minds of readers not as the shrunken snake trapped under a pagoda, but the
               sexy, aggressive woman who took a weaker human man as her lover. 
            This resistant reading of the text may be too colored by modern viewpoints, since it
               is impossible to know for certain what readers in the past enjoyed about these
               stories. However, consciously or unconsciously, these authors created a female
               character who fits the characteristics of a feisty heroine. In fact, Communists in
               the PRC in the 1970s reclaimed her as a feminist symbol for women who rebel against
               the patriarchy.
                  Lai, 52.
                Just as the dangerous femme fatale of noir films has reemerged as a heroine
               in her own right, rather than the sexy death trap for the male protagonist, so too
               Lady White Snake should be reclaimed for her sexual assertiveness and life slightly
               outside the bounds of conventional social expectations. 
         
      
   

   
      
         
            The Decline of the Northeastern Ohio Steel Market: Why Did Attempts by Union Leaders and Concerned Citizens to Revive the Steel Industry Ultimately Fail?
            
            An Extended Essay in History
            By Philosophy E. Walker
            Candidate Number: xxxxxxxxx
            Supervisor: Alexis Mamaux
            Date: January 12, 2004
            Word Count: 3215
            United World College of the American West
            Montezuma, NM
            87731
            USA
            September 19, 1977 is a date that few people in Youngstown, Ohio will ever forget. On that date Jennings
            Lambeth, president of Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company, announced that most of the steel company’s Campbell
            Works would close. Although for other cities this would simply be a minor economic setback, for the people
            of Youngstown and the surrounding area, it meant disaster. Mahoning County was a one-industry area, and the
            people of Youngstown, Struthers, Campbell, Boardman Township, and the numerous other small towns and
            villages in the area only had one main employer: the steel mills. 
            The events that would follow this
            date (known as Black Monday) are seen by the people who witnessed them either as stories of great courage
            and determination or as monuments to human failure and false hope. Rather than sit back and wait for their
            jobs to be snatched away, the workers and local union members in the mills fought long and hard to be able
            to keep the factories open. Petitions, protests, rallies, collectivization, and even the takeover of a steel
            company’s headquarters were all attempted in a desperate movement by those in the industry to preserve the
            only source of employment that this town had. These well-intentioned efforts ultimately failed, leaving
            thousands with shattered dreams and a distinct lack of trust in fellow humankind. 
            But why did the
            brave attempts by union leaders and concerned citizens to revive the steel industry ultimately fail? When
            examining the area’s history, culture, and economic situation we can identify four main reasons: the refusal
            of the international leadership of United Steelworkers of America to support their union’s Youngstown
            branch, the lagging international steel market, the lack of a clear, organized vision for individual
            initiatives such as the Save Our Valley Campaign, and crippling regionalism which caused animosity between
            different small towns in the region, all contributed in some way to the failure of the workers and union
            leaders to save the industry. Most importantly, the problem in Youngstown was a nationwide problem. Although
            it affected Youngstown and the surrounding area more than it affected other regions, the local people simply
            could not solve a national crisis on a local level. 
            
            A Brief History of Steel in Northeastern Ohio

In 1802 James and Daniel Heaton discovered ore and coal lining Yellow Creek in an area outside of Youngstown known as
Poland Township. Their blast furnace, “Hopewell,” was the very first blast furnace in the area. During the Civil War,
Youngstown played a vital role in supplying the Union army with iron products. Youngstown also was a major railway
crossroads, due to its strategic position between Cleveland, Pittsburgh, New York, and Chicago. In fact, “More rail
cars passed under the Center Street Bridge [a major bridge in Youngstown] per day than any other location in the
country.”

During the 19th century, the center of iron manufacturing had gradually shifted from the far East Coast
(Massachusetts and Eastern Pennsylvania) to the Ohio Valley Pittsburgh regions of the Northeast, including the Mahoning
Valley and the Hanging Rock region of Ohio and Kentucky. By 1880, Youngstown’s population had grown to nearly 16,000,
which meant it had doubled in size over a twenty-year period. The town continued to prosper, driven by the flux of
immigrants pouring in with the hopes of employment at the mills. This prosperity continued until the late 1920s, when
the Great Depression hit the area hard. Despite the Congress of Industrial Organization’s successful efforts to
establish a national steel workers’ union, the industry barely survived the Depression years. Finally, the outbreak of
the Second World War made iron and steel important again, and Youngstown was bolstered out of its economic standstill
into a fast-paced period of booming growth.

Youngstown may have been an important and prosperous region in the post-war period, but the seeds for its downfall
were slowly being sown. Strikes racked the town during the forties, fifties, and sixties, and they were often long and
bloody. In 1973, the Experimental Negotiating Agreement was signed. This prohibited strikes and lockout, angering
workers and driving productivity and laborer morale down. At the same time, stricter governmental standards for
environmental protection and the growth of imported steel were making it harder to produce and market American steel
parts, and the overeager shareholders in the companies’ stock were pushing for more and more of their share of the pie.
Most importantly, Youngstown’s steel mills were slowly becoming less efficient and more expensive. Old technology was
not replaced, obsolete methods were not updated, and almost none of the industry’s profits were being utilized to help
modernize. It was a recipe for disaster that would soon explode in the faces of hundreds of thousands of workers and
their families.

Black Monday and the Crash of the Steel Industry
The announcement of the closing of the mills in 1977 was the beginning of a downward spiral, which would send the
entire valley into chaos and ruin. Between 1977 and 1981, a total of five mills were closed and approximately 25,000
jobs were lost countywide. Meetings of union officials and mill bosses were hurriedly set up in an attempt to persuade
the powers that be to reconsider their statement. However, it was clear that, in the words of USWA president Lloyd
McBride, “If you can’t make a buck, you get out of the business.”


The closings meant the end of Youngstown’s only real industry, the end of its population growth, and then end of
economic progress. Without the mills, people sought other places of employment in adjoining states or even other areas
of the country. Those that could afford to move did so; those that couldn’t afford to move mostly ended up on the
streets. Without an industrial or a residential base, commerce shrank considerably. It was becoming increasingly clear
that without the industrial base provided by the mills, the city of Youngstown would soon become a ghost town, inhabited
by those too poor or hopeful to escape. The workers decided they needed to do something to save their city, and so they
mobilized in a variety of ways.

Attempts to Save the Mills

The very first thing that the workers could do was “to get up a petition to stop the shutdown,” says Ed Mann, a local
union leader and organizer.  The petition was circulated, eventually including thousands of signatures; it was then
given to USWA representatives to present to President Carter in Washington. However, the representatives were shunted to
the side and ignored in Washington, since Youngstown’s political influence had died with its industry.

The International chapter of the USWA had much more lobbying power, but they refused to support the local union
members. The petition was lost among paperwork and bureaucratic procedure.

Next, workers decided to form the Ecumenical Coalition, an organization of local religious groups which spearheaded
the attempt to reopen the Youngstown works. The Coalition drafter letters to the Lykes Company asking if a group of
workers might purchase the mill and run it collectively. Lykes ignored the letters, so the Coalition turned once again
to the federal government. Here, too, they were ignored. The Coalition had no proper funds to buy the mills, so they
could do nothing but sit back and watch as the mills closed. 
Finally, following the shutdown of US Steel’s plant in 1980, local union leaders congregated outside the US Steel
Headquarters in Youngstown. They invited local people and politicians to witness the scene, then charged the
Headquarters and took it over. The workers stayed there until the next day, when US Steel declared that they were ready
to talk about selling the mill. Immediately after the workers left the building, US steel representatives told the local
union leaders that they had changed their minds and were no longer interested in allowing the workers to purchase the
mill.

All these efforts eventually came to nothing, and Youngstown’s steel mills remained closed. These attempts to save
the mills were hindered by several major factors, including the decline of the world steel market, which made American
steel impossible to sell or export.

The Decline of the World Market
The efforts to save the mills failed partly because the international market for steel had largely dried up. During
World War II the rest of the world was hungry for America’s iron and steel products; however, by the seventies no
foreign nations needed to import steel in such large quantities. In fact, American steel imports were beginning to
outweigh exports.

Foreign steel was easier and more efficient to make, and was often of higher quality than domestic steel. Foreign
steel companies invested in their factories, updating their technology and replacing their equipment often. This meant
that foreign facilities were more modern and efficient than any plants in America, and therefore were able to export a
more competitive product.

Foreign steel was also much cheaper. Wage hikes, although they helped to improve living conditions of steel workers
in the US, made American steel far more expensive. Also, international competitors drew on a large supply of very cheap
labor. Jobs were scarce in other steel-exporting countries, and labor laws were either non-existent or allowed employers
to pay much less for work. Labor costs in America continued to go up, draining US companies of their resources, while
companies overseas were able to cut labor costs and put that money back into updating and renovating their facilities.

On a worldwide scale, newer materials such as aluminum, plastic, and composites were beginning to substitute steel
both at home and abroad. Steel demand worldwide was beginning to decline, and it affected both domestic and foreign
companies. However, to American companies already suffering financial setbacks, outdated machinery, and fierce
competition, this lack of demand was an inconvenience they could not afford. America’s steel remained unsold, flooding
the world market with inferior products that no one wanted to buy.

Since this problem was a national one rather than a local one, the problems that were occurring in Youngstown were
not unique. Youngstown was perhaps hit harder than any other town by the collapse of the steel industry, but it was not
alone. The problem was a national one, involving many more mills and issues than Youngstown’s alone. J. Philip Richley,
a union member and organizer of many attempts to save 5the mills, has summed it up thus: “You just can’t solve a
nation-wide problem in a single city.” The decline of the world steel market affected not just Youngstown but the
entire steel community in America. Trying to prop up one city’s mills was impossible when faced with the depression that
spread throughout the entire industry.

The Save Our Valley Campaign: Lack of Funds and Plans
Eventually, some religious leaders involved in the Ecumenical Coalition joined forces within community members and
former steel mill employees to create the Save Our Valley Campaign. As the name suggests, local leaders wanted to
instill the people of Youngstown with a fierce sense of urgency, driving them forward to confront steel companies and
owners and help secure the future of the region. Marches, speeches, and letter writing were all employed to help
stimulate the Campaign and rally the people.
But the Campaign was bogged down heavily by the lack of proper funding. The people of Youngstown, being now
unemployed had very little money to spend on anything but staying alive. College tuition, clothes, food, and heating all
had to come before donations to non-profit organizations. People outside of the area had no personal investment in the
mills, and so it was difficult to convince anyone from out of the county to contribute funds. The lack of money proved
to be crippling, because it prevented the organizations involved from purchasing the mills to run collectively. Without
funds, the Save Our Valley Campaign could do nothing major to help salvage the city’s dying economy.

The Save Our Valley Campaign also lacked one essential component: an actual concrete plan. No one seemed to know
just how to go about fixing the problems. Letters and petitions were all very well, but they did little to improve the
situation. People clung to vague ideas of worker collectivization, but no one could really fathom exactly how that would
work; the people of Youngstown were, after all, not particularly familiar with socialism or collectivization in general.
Beyond that, no one knew how they should proceed: everyone knew that saving the mills was important, but nobody stepped
forward with a full-fledged plan to do it without losing huge amounts of money and dragging even more people down.
Without a real plan, nothing could truly be achieved.

Without funds to drive the efforts, or even a real plan of action, the Save Our Valley Campaign did more harm than
good. In effect, it raised the hopes of workers without having any real chance at saving anything. People became excited
and waited for the mills to reappear, but they never did. The Campaign failed to save any jobs and Youngstown was
plunged into economic chaos.

The Apathy of USWA

United Steel Workers of America was the union representing the Youngstown steel workers when the closings hit.
Initially many assumed that their union would take a lead role in fighting for the recovery of their jobs. However, it
soon became clear that although the local union leaders were prepared to fight, the international branch was not. The
higher levels of the union became increasingly disassociated with Youngstown and its plight, attempting to shut out the
appeals from workers and local union representatives and to ignore what was really happening.

Actually, one main reason for the behavior of the USWA was that union leaders really had no idea what to do. No one
had ever seen a shutdown of this magnitude and rapidity before, and none of the leaders of USWA, not even president Lynn
Williams, knew what could be done. It was clear to everyone that the economic fallout from this series of closings
would be one of the worst in US history, and so without any real precedents the union leaders were flustered. Rather
than try and come up with some sort of scenario, the USWA simply ignored what was going on in Youngstown, hoping that
perhaps the problem would resolve itself, or at least not spread any further than it already had.

Besides incompetence, the USWA had one other major reason for rejecting their local counterpart: fear of socialism.
Obviously the union itself was not afraid of socialist action, but they worried that the federal government might see
the efforts of Youngstown workers to collectivize as a movement towards socialism and perhaps even communism. If the
USWA supported the efforts to revive the mills and encouraged worker control and ownership of the factories, then the
government (and potentially other important people and institutions as well) might begin to think that the UWSA leaders
were encouraging socialism. This would mean that UWSA would lose credibility with the American government and its
people, something they could not afford to do. Therefore, they decided to withdraw support and let the local branch
fight it out alone.

Regionalism

From its very first days the Mahoning Valley has been an area packed with small villages and hamlets. Youngstown is the
name of the major city area, but surrounding it on all sides are small communities which to the casual viewer are
indistinguishable from the main city itself. Boardman, Poland Township, Struthers, Lowellville, Warren, Lordstown,
Canfield, Niles, and many other towns and districts are crowded around Youngstown (see Figure 3). People from each town
work, shop, eat, and socialize in towns separate from their own, making each town strongly dependent on every other
town. However, although traffic is heavy between each separate district, each area has its own distinct cultural
ethnicity, educational system, heritage, history, and even food. For example, Struthers is a poor town with a large
Slovak population, where education is generally better than in surrounding towns, but unemployment is much higher and
pollution is widespread. Most people in Struthers are either Orthodox or Baptist. Two blocks over one finds Boardman, a
well-off township with a reputation for rich but unsuccessful schools. Its residents are mainly Italian and Roman
Catholic, with a small concentration of Methodists on the east side. Unemployment is low in comparison with surrounding
towns, and the streets are clean and well kept. With many more cultures, religions, and economic levels living in close
proximity to one another, a curious phenomenon has overtaken the area: regionalism. Each town, with their own identity,
instills a strong regionalistic feeling within their respective populations, which dictates many habits, exchanges, and
interactions between populations. Oftentimes this regionalism takes the form of bizarre forms of hatred, with certain
towns becoming sworn enemies of others.

With so much regional tension, it became very hard for workers to unite under a common cause, even one that would
save their jobs and their futures. Workers from Poland Township would refuse to attend rallies with workers from
Campbell, and citizens of Struthers would become suspicious of people from Boardman, even if they were supposed to be
working towards the same thing. A lack of cooperation became a crippling problem for the movement, because no one was
willing to put aside regional differences to work together. In some instances, small companies would express interest in
helping the movement or in relocating their business in the area, but because of regional pride no one could ever agree
where the new businesses should relocate. In this way the people of the Mahoning Valley missed many opportunities for
new industrial or commercial lifeblood because of arbitrary arguments where the goal was simply to protect regional
pride.

Conclusion: The Aftershock and the Significance of Black Monday
 
Black Monday was a devastating blow to an entire generation of people. The efforts to avoid catastrophe after the fact
were unsuccessful for four main reasons: the failure of the international steel market, the lack of funds and plans in
initiatives such as the Save Our Valley Campaign, the refusal of the USWA to support their local chapter out of
ineptitude and fear, and the absurd but very real regionalism which corrupted solidarity efforts and drove away any hope
for brining in new companies.

What happened in Youngstown may not seem significant on an international or even on a national level, and perhaps it
is not. But to the thousands of people living there, the loss of the mills was a devastating event that sent shock waves
through their economic, political, and social futures. Because of the mills and their conspicuous absence, hundreds of
people were uprooted, forced to leave their homes and tightly knit communities. Hundreds more joined the unemployment
lines, or even began living on the streets. For the people of Youngstown, Black Monday was not just a historical event-
it was the most important event in their lives.


The steel workers who tried to save their jobs and their lives were part of something greater than themselves, something
which would endure long after they had moved away and moved on. Even though they eventually failed, the fact that they
tried to preserve what they felt belonged to them is an amazing example of how far people will go to save their lives
and the futures of their children.

              
      
   
