
   
      
         The Cable Spool Fort
         by Bill Glover
         "Hey, Roy?" 
         "What?" 
         "You suck." Chad said. He wished Roy wouldn't fall for that gag every time, "get me a big rock, Roy." Roy stooped to pick up a big, white caliche rock that looked like a dirty lump of chalk and handed it to Chad. Chad took the rock with disgust as Roy returned to staring at his shoes. Chad was six, and at eight Roy should have been teasing or ordering Chad around or something. But since his fall the year before, Roy had been shuffling and doing what he was told. Chad strained and pounded the rock into the iron hole until he could smell the dust. It smelled like first grade. He wished he were there now, even if he did have to sit next to Roy. The rock was too big to fit into the iron hub of the big cable spool, so Chad leaned it against the tumbleweed and slid down off the splintery wood on his belly to admire his handiwork. 
         The fort was a lone, wooden cable spool like a tall barrel with thick disks on its ends, each the size of a dinner table. Several boards were missing, making a door to the small room inside. The tall tumbleweed flag marked it as Chad's to defend now. He looked around, trying not to seem nervous. 
         The sky met the flat ground in all directions on the other side of the chain link fence. Chad checked the other fort out of the corner of his eye. Two forts stood on the playground, and a hot, bare battlefield separated them. A massive, rusted A-frame swing marked the border though nobody was swinging in the hot sun. The larger of the two forts was a squat black bunker made of tires, two big tractor tires capped with one from a truck and two smaller ones from cars. The older boys lay around in shade and napped inside the walls. They were watching now from well defended spy holes, or maybe they were performing secret experiments and swearing bloody oaths. Chad wished he were old enough to be one of them. Maybe Tucker would let him in after he saw Chad wasn't chicken. 
         "You wanna play robots?" Roy asked. Chad felt his heart beat a little faster and his cheeks burned. He had invented the "robots" game to make fun of Roy, but Roy had never figured that out either. It was Roy's favorite game. 
         "No, go get some stickers." Roy shuffled off without argument, his baseball cap pulled low to cover his bald head and brain plug and his shoe laces untied. Roy had taught him to tie his shoes when Chad was five. He thought about gathering stickers himself. Roy was too slow, but he didn't dare step away from his fort. He took another careful look over his shoulder and bent to pluck a yucca spear as if that were what drew his interest. The long blade of the yucca had a sharp tip, but the only weapons allowed according to Humpty Dumpty Nursery rules of engagement were smelly thistles or cocklebur stems covered with spiked yellow stickers. The tiny barbs hurt, but nobody was allowed to beat you up if you just used stickers. The hot August sun was settling toward the time that Mrs. Rayburn would bring the milk tray out of the cinder block building where the toddlers and babies were kept. The older boys wouldn't wait much longer before attacking. 
         Meanwhile Roy stalked around the fence edge bending to pick cockleburs as he went. Every move Roy made since the accident was smooth and sudden and strange -- like a remote control boy. When he saw Roy in the hospital with a shaved head and the small silver plug at the back of his noggin like a bottle cap, Chad had called him, "Remote Control Boy." Momma had smacked Chad for saying it which hurt, and then she had cried, which was worse. Pop had given Chad the sideways glance that promised hard labor when they made it home. Chad just hung his head. He knew it was too late to explain that he was trying to get a smile out of Roy. 
         Pop said, "The doctors have put something very special in Roy's brain. It's something they made for soldiers and astronauts and it's going to help Roy walk and talk to us again." Pop put a hand on Roy's shoulder. "How are you feeling, Roy?" Pop spoke slowly and Chad knew that he must have been practicing this with Roy. They all stood around while the doctor made Roy shake and jerk and moan with a sick sound. But the thing in his head hadn't worked yet because of something having to do with the, "electric toads," which wouldn't, "sit up." Roy didn't really start talking for days and didn't walk until a long time after that. Now, this year, Roy was in the same grade as Chad, and it was embarrassing. 
         Roy stepped around the edge of the building and out of sight. Just then Tucker Williams came climbing out of the top of the black fort like a gold headed monster. Tucker was big, even for a third grader, and he was not quite right in a different way than Roy. Tucker was the oldest boy in the playground, and the one who decided the rules of the game. 
         "Time out!" Chad called, "We're not ready yet." 
         "No time outs!" Tucker shouted and continued to climb down the tires. Several more boys spewed out after him. 
         "Roy!" Chad called, but his voice would only whisper. He didn't want to be a crybaby, Tucker hated crybabies. The rules of the game were that Chad had to keep everyone away from his fort and away from his tumbleweed flag. From painful experience, he knew it wasn't going to be as easy as just pretending he was too slow or too weak to do anything. Tucker liked to hit and he liked to see blood. Going down too easy would only make him mad, so Chad reached behind him to grab the five stickers he had managed to collect before the start of the game and readied himself. 
         The boys came in quick from all sides, knocking Chad down, but he managed to roll to his feet and get one sticker off into a boy's arm before being knocked down again. 
         "Baby!" Tucker was standing over him with the huge tumbleweed held high in the sun. "Penis! You didn't fight!" 
         Chad tried to tell his arms to lift him and let him reach for the tumbleweed to prove he wasn't a baby to Tucker. But as much as he wanted to appease the scary, staring, angry boy, he couldn't move for fear of what was coming next. 
         "I'll make you fight." Tucker leaned in low and his breath was sour as it blew in Chad's face. "I'm gonna take the plug out." Then Tucker's face became serious. The awesomeness of what he intended pulling his eyes wider still. From his pocket he pulled a small screwdriver, perfect for prying plugs from boy's heads. 
         Now Chad's legs and arms and mouth worked, and he was up and running and screaming, "Roy, go inside! Roy!" He sprinted for the corner of the building around which Roy had disappeared. The door was on that side and Mrs. Rayburn. Just then a horrible pain stung Chad's cheek and neck and ear. The tumbleweed's yellow thorned branches scratched around him as it dug into his face. Tucker made a grab for him but missed it, and Chad heard his shirt rip a little. He ran like only a small boy can run, but he was losing and he wished hard that he could fly. 
         "Roy!" Chad rounded the corner grabbing the cinder block to help him turn faster just as Tucker came down again with the tumbleweed from behind, and the world slowed almost to a stop. 
         Roy stood with the bill of his cap down. His head rose and his eyes focused over Chad's shoulder. Roy held stickers in his hand like flowers, but he bent looking down and snatched something from the ground. His hand blurred and snapped out as he stood back up. Something whined as it spun past Chad's ear, and he heard a sharp, meaty thunk just behind him. 
         Roy stood expressionless as ever as Chad turned to look. Tucker towered there with a surprised expression and crossed eyes, the tumbleweed in one hand and the screwdriver held up high in the other ready to stab down into Chad's back. A sharp, flat, flint rock split Tucker's forehead and was buried deep and solid like a part of a Halloween costume complete with a drop of blood just starting down toward his nose. 
         Tucker dropped down like a jacket from a hook. He lay folded over his own lap in a way that made Chad think of broken things. 
         "You ok?" It was Roy, and when Chad looked up there was something like his brother there around the eyes. 
         "Yeah." Chad stepped back away from Tucker's open-eyed face. "He was gonna take off your head plug." 
         "I thought he might stab you." Roy said and craned his neck forward to look at Tucker's face as the other boys began to crowd around at a respectful distance. "Do you think he's dead?" 
         Just then Tucker blinked and began to sob. "Nah." Chad said, "We're gonna be in trouble." 
         "Yeah." Roy said. Then he shrugged. Suddenly his blank face seemed like the face of a Play Force Soldier or a GI Joe. 
         "Hey, Roy?" 
         "What?" 
         "You suck." Chad finished the formula, but this time, he didn't mind that Roy fell for it. It was all right. 
         
   

    
        
            
                TUESDAY, AUGUST 03, 2004
                 Captured Moments
                 Published in Double Feature by Emma Bull and Will Shetterly
                 (NESFA Press, 1994). 
                 This work is hereby released into the Public Domain. To view a copy of the
                    public domain dedication, visit
                    http://creativecommons.org/licenses/publicdomain/ or send a letter to Creative
                    Commons, 559 Nathan Abbott Way, Stanford, California 94305, USA. 
            
            Captured Moments by Will Shetterly
            
                 I remember Papa's stopbox, a teal blue Tiempo Capturado that Mama brought home
                    for his birthday. It was huge and inefficient, and she should never have spent
                    so many pesos on a toy, but Papa would not let her return it. He used it to
                    preserve baby tomatoes, cucumbers, and strawberries in translucent cubes that he
                    stored in the pantry for spring-time meals in the middle of winter. Mama kept
                    her mink jacket, a family hand-me-down, safe from time in a stopbox, and lent
                    the capturador to my uncle for his stamp collection. Sometimes they would let us
                    little ones to seal a treasured toy or a last piece of birthday cake until we
                    begged them for its release, usually a few hours after enclosing it. 
                 When my father died, a year after my mother, my sisters and I cleaned out their
                    apartment. We found our baby shoes protected in stopboxes. I took mine home,
                    where they sat above my computer while I worked on my first play. One night when
                    I did not believe love had ever existed for anyone, I used my own capturador, a
                    sleek titanium Sanyo Tardar Ahora, to undo the stopbox. Bringing my face close
                    to the shoes, I breathed deeply of air that my parents had trapped while closing
                    up that symbol of their love for me. 
                 The instant would have been improved had my baby shoes been cleaned before they
                    were encased. But as soon as I coughed, I laughed, and I did not try to kill
                    myself that night. 
            
            
                Let me begin again. 
            
            
                 I like life on the resort worlds -- always have and, after the upcoming
                    mindwipe, always will. Last year, I rented a small house on Vega IV, a sea
                    world, all islands and reefs and archipelagos, turquoise waters and aquamarine
                    skies, sunrises like symphonies and sunsets like stars gone supernova. There's
                    only one city: called Nuevo Acapulco in La Enciclopedia del Empirio de la
                    Humanidad, it's N'apulco to the locals. The N'apulcans are mostly emigrants from
                    Polaris II; the only difference between them and their Carribbean ancestors is
                    that the ancestors fleeced NorAm tourists. Now the N'apulcans profit from their
                    Hispanic siblings. 
                 I don't mean to sound cynical. I suppose I wish to show that I'm still capable
                    of a certain authorial distance, a semblance of dispassionate observation. The
                    following events may indicate otherwise. 
                 In fine tourist tradition, most homes on Vega IV are named. Mine was The
                    Sleeping Flamingo, and its outer walls were coral pink. Were they
                    mood-sensitive, they would have changed as I first viewed them. The rental
                    agent, an attractive N'apulcan named Tasha Cortez, was not mood-sensitive
                    either. She said, "It's beautiful, isn't it, Se単or Flynn?" 
                 My instinct was to gesture curtly with a cupped hand that she lift the wind boat
                    and take me elsewhere. But she was young and attractive (as I have said and may
                    say again) and eager and so happy to be assisting the infamous Bernardo Flynn
                    that I merely raised an eyebrow in mild scepticism. And then, because a
                    playwright cannot resist a promising line, I said, "Your Sleeping Flamingo
                    should be put to sleep." 
                 To say her face fell would do a disservice to Tasha and to literature. (Allow me
                    my self-indulgences as you would those of a dying man -- when I convince my
                    mindsmith to permit the wipe, there will be another Bernardo Flynn, one who
                    knows no more of Tasha Cortez or Vega IV than he reads here.) Her brows drew
                    together, creasing the lovely, caramel-colored skin around her eyes and showing
                    the pattern for an old woman's wrinkles on her forehead. Her lower lip (a trifle
                    too narrow for her face, perhaps her only physical flaw) thrust forward slightly
                    as she started to speak. She caught herself, slid her jaw infinitesimally back
                    into place, and said, "You don't like it?" 
                 I laughed. What could I do? I clapped her shoulder to show I was not laughing at
                    her. "Like it? I hate it, despise it, abhor it! It's gaudy, graceless,
                    pretentious -- That house is an affront to taste and intelligence. I should buy
                    it to raze it, but I am not so kind-hearted. I might, however, rent it." 
                 I think she only heard the last words of my speech. "You will?" 
                 "It amuses me. Show me around, and then I shall decide." 
                 "Of course, Se単or Flynn." 
                 "And stop calling me 'se単or'. Not even Los Mundos is so polite. Call me
                    Bernardo." 
                 "If you wish." 
                 "I beg you, change the color of the walls, at the very least." 
                 "But of course!" The house walls shifted from pink to lavender. 
                 I stared. 
                 "How's that?" 
                 I looked at her. 
                 "Worse?" 
                 I nodded. "I would not have thought it possible." 
                 She frowned. "It is rather ugly." 
                 "Thoroughly ugly," I corrected with smile. 
                 "Obscenely ugly," said she, smiling too. 
                 "No." I pointed. "It has no tower." 
                 "I can fix that." She reached for another dial on the house controls. 
                 "Don't you dare!" Her wrist, when I grabbed it, was smooth and strong and warm
                    in my fingers. "I'll take it. Exactly as it is." 
                 "You will?" 
                 "I must. God knows what you might do to it next." Reluctantly, I released her
                    hand. 
                 The interior of The Flamingo was a welcome surprise. Cloudwood had been used in
                    a Mediterranean manner, making the house seem primitive and civilized at the
                    same time. The kitchen and baths had every convenience that I desired. From the
                    living room, the view of the beach struck me with such intensity that Tasha
                    asked if I felt ill. All I could say was, "No. I'm in love." We both thought I
                    referred to the vista. 
            
            
                 It's strange how one can write delightedly of the happier moments of life,
                    forgetting the things that one would forget by remembering fully the things one
                    would remember, and suddenly the forgotten, in revenge, rears up to savage the
                    unwary. So it was as I wrote the preceding. My heart convulsed, and I left this
                    manuscript for a three-day spree. Apparently I was so successful that it lasted
                    a week and a half. Not bad for an eighty-three-year-old, even for one who has
                    his rejuve every month. And if I can brag and digress so easily, this must not
                    be painful enough to merit a mindwipe, yes? 
                 No. I abandoned these notes to my future self to have the wipe done immediately,
                    thinking that Bernardo Flynn should receive such services when he needed them,
                    even should the need arise at the third hour after midnight. My mindsmith is not
                    so understanding. She says I am emotionally a child, to which I reply, "Of
                    course. Why else would I come to you?" This logic does not soothe her; she says
                    I must wait three weeks. Three!. Such is the law. I say I do not care about law,
                    I care about service and she should care about money. Enough. I went on a spree,
                    and it must have been a good one. I hope the wipe is as successful with my time
                    on Vega IV as my spree was with my time here. I dimly remember three bedpartners
                    who were probably human, and one that I hope was delirium. I will not answer the
                    phone for a week, no matter whose face appears on it. 
                 I keep evading the issue. But which issue? The issue of why I am evading the
                    issue, or the issue itself? To deal with the first: it hurts to remember. If I
                    am capable of love, I loved Tasha Cortez. If I am not, I had the perfect mirror
                    for my narcissism. 
                 As for the issue itself, I'm no longer sure what I want to record. The
                    playwright in me wants every scene of our time together. The editor says no,
                    only those that are relevant. The sufferer says no, only those which cause no
                    pain. And the artist says no, only those which cause the most pain, for those
                    would be the truest memories. 
                 So I shall soothe my quarreling selves with a compromise. I will not talk of the
                    first time Tasha and I tried any act of sex or sport together. I can remember
                    similar things with others. Tasha's witchery lay in making old acts new. Is that
                    love? Probably not. But it is something marvelous and rare, which is surely a
                    sign of love. 
                 If my love for her was the only important thing, I would leave a holo of her
                    with a note: "Dear Future, this is Tasha Cortez. You loved her. With warmest
                    regards, Your Past." 
                 Enough. Tasha and I walked through The Sleeping Flamingo together, and I decided
                    to buy it. Then -- 
            
            
                 This is not easy. I stand up, I walk around, I pretend someone makes a vid about
                    a writer and I must enact every cliche. I cannot decide what's important. But I
                    have learned something: writing trivializes. The Tasha who was is not the Tasha
                    in this file. The Tasha in this file is not even the Tasha I loved and thought I
                    knew. The Tasha in this file would walk through a net show in half an hour,
                    including commercials, and just before an ad for Figuero's Flash Diapers --
                    Keeps Baby Driest!, she -- 
                 Tasha is not the whole of what happened on Vega IV. I must also write about
                    Emiliano Gabriel Malaquez. 
            
            
                 Future Self, you know our style well enough to tell that time has passed between
                    the last sentence and this. Not another spree --at least, not like the other. I
                    have been re-reading all our favorite books -- 
                 But neither of us care to dwell on such boring subjects, do we? 
                 I want to pick up with Tasha and me walking about The Sleeping Flamingo, and
                    then, for the sake of literary convenience, to say that from a corner of the
                    yard I saw a neighboring house, and the sight filled me with darkest
                    forebodings. But the truth is that Tasha pointed it out from the one place where
                    it could barely be seen, and I only felt envy that it had been designed by
                    someone with understated good taste. "Who lives there?" I asked. 
                 "No one," Tasha replied. 
                 Truth is always more boring than fiction. For Malaquez did not move into Dream's
                    End until four or five months after I -- we? how does one speak to one's future
                    self? -- occupied The Flamingo. 
                 I do not plan to write a book: this narrative must move more quickly. Tasha and
                    I became lovers that evening, after a good dinner of paella at her apartment. I
                    made some small joke afterward, about approving of her firm's business
                    incentives, and she cried. Consoling her, I began to suspect I loved her. I
                    moved into The Flamingo the next day; and she gave up her apartment three weeks
                    later to join me. It was the sort of romance that happens so rarely that most
                    people believe it does not happen at all, the sort of romance that sustains the
                    hopeless billions who regularly watch A Wandering Star Called Love. (Which is to
                    say, you and me, Future Self.) 
                 Who was Tasha Cortez? She was a twenty-four-year-old (Terran Standard) N'Apulcan
                    who left university training in hydroponics to work for her aunt's real estate
                    firm. Her family said she did it to support her father, who was dying of a
                    particularly painful degenerative disease. Tasha said she woke up one morning
                    convinced that if she spent another day studying vegetables, she would become
                    one. 
                 She did not like my plays. I had impressed her because I was famous and amusing
                    and not, as I had hoped, because I was a great artist. That bothered (yes, and
                    intrigued) me until I realized that she was bored by most plays, movies, and
                    vid. She did not like being a spectator. I often told her that she should have a
                    bio-check to see if she suffered from some metabolic imbalance. I often told her
                    too many things. 
                 Search "Emiliano Malaquez" and you'll find he's a master of the "captured
                    moment" school of sculpture. Even The Terran Times has only praise for his work.
                    To compare his pieces to those of others is to compare mannequins to living
                    models. He accents the illusion of reality --I paraphrase his entry in La
                    Enciclopedia Humanica --by doing life-size scenes in "the full round," never the
                    easier frontal or three-quarters view. Moreover, he never did portraits of
                    famous people; his works were therefore the reality and could never be compared
                    to it. As is typical of his school, his pieces are sealed in stopboxes. The
                    shimmer of light on their surfaces always reminds us that we're looking at an
                    instant snatched from under the hooves of time. They say the cubes will outlast
                    planets and suns, that when the universe dies, the works of Malaquez and his
                    followers will be the last things seen in the final wink of God's eye. 
                 Yes, Self, I am also bothered that this observation ignores half-eaten cheese
                    sandwiches, incomplete insect collections, and locks of infants' hair, forgotten
                    in closets, basements, and warehouses. 
                 You see the inspiration for my latest play, "Captured Moments." The mindwipe
                    will take its creation from my future self --but time too often does that
                    without aid. The play's second act concludes with the last fight between Tasha
                    and me. I have disguised us in the play, and deleted one brief melodramatic
                    interchange. Now I will mention it, in case I/You decide to restore it. Shortly
                    before she left, Tasha said, "You steal from life for art, Bernardo. You'll
                    impoverish yourself." I only snarled at her and -- 
                 My story leaps ahead of itself. Let me retreat and retrench: 
                 One night during N'apulco's mild winter, Tasha returned to The Flamingo, saying,
                    "Nardo! Nardo! Guess what?" 
                 My mind was on other things. "You wish to become pregnant? I suppose I could
                    assist a friend. Purely for the sake of the race, of course --" 
                 "Ever the altruist. Still, if I do decide, we could practice --" 
                 Later, I said, "You've been chosen to succeed the Emperor." 
                 "What?" 
                 "My guess." 
                 She batted at my nose like a cat. "Silly Nardo." 
                 "Then I give up." 
                 "Emil Malaquez is buying the house up the hill." 
                 "Oh." 
                 "You don't know who he is?" 
                 "Well..." 
                 "Nardo!" One of the many things I liked about her was that she often thought me
                    shockingly ignorant. 
                 "That's, uh..." I am never so quick-witted in person as I am on the page.
                    Especially when someone thinks me shockingly ignorant. 
                 "You know, the sculptor. He's had shows in Brazil and New Madrid and everywhere!
                    He may be more famous than you." 
                 "Imagine that." I remembered an article in The Medusa and a photo of a work in
                    which 100-peso notes fell like confetti onto a small Undersider, sexlessly young
                    in grimy, oversized clothing. The child's face was a warground for wonder and
                    mistrust. Imprisoned light from forgotten streetlamps snagged itself on metal
                    threads in the fluttering pesos. The stars themselves might have fallen on the
                    Undersider and the event would have been no less strange, no less miraculous. "A
                    great artist will grace this world, then?" 
                 "Nardo!" She was never tolerant of my ego. 
                 "Well. What's this more-famous-than-me person like?" 
                 "I didn't meet him, jealous old one." 
                 "Too bad. If I thought he could free me from you --" 
                 "Hah!" She wrapped her arms around my stomach. "You'll never be free of me, old
                    man!" 
                 The next evening, she arrived with a stack of glistening stopboxes containing
                    sushi, sashimi, oysters in their shells, and Terran vegetables fresh plucked
                    from their hydroponic beds. Wondering about the reason for her extravagance, I
                    asked how work had gone that day. 
                 "Emil came in. He's taking Dream's End." 
                 "Emil?" 
                 "You've no memory left, old one. Emil Malaquez." 
                 "Ah. You did that to test my affections." 
                 "What?" 
                 "Calling him by his first name. I did that in a comedy once.'Nights with Karl
                    and Groucho.' It was before your time." 
                 "Oh." 
                 "The critics liked it." 
                 "I'm glad." A moment later: "That's not why I called him 'Emil'." 
                 "No?" 
                 "No. We lunched together. He's nice." 
                 "Oh." 
                 "It wasn't like that." 
                 "You're free." 
                 "Of course. Still, it wasn't like that. You think I sleep with every famous
                    person I meet?" 
                 As you may have guessed, we had talked about such things. I do not claim ours
                    was a perfect affair, only a wonderful one. 
                 "Tasha --" 
                 "Do you?" 
                 "No." 
                 "Good. I invited him to dinner tomorrow." 
                 "Oh?" 
                 "He'll be our neighbor. You say we're becoming too insular, that we need to
                    socialize --" 
                 "I've socialized for sixty-three years." 
                 "Nardo?" 
                 "Yes?" 
                 "How should I reply?" Her voice had grown quiet, and I began to feel some guilt.
                    I had, it is true, told her that we needed other company than our own. I said
                    this from years of learning that romances consume themselves without other fuel.
                    But knowing this did not mean I wanted it. 
                 I said, "Truthfully." It was the statement of a younger and crueler man than I. 
                 She screamed, "I haven't socialized with Terra's elite for most of my life! I
                    haven't socialized with hardly anyone for hardly any of my life! And I invite a
                    neighbor, one nice, lonely man --" 
                 "I'm sorry." 
                 " --who took me to -- What?" 
                 "I'm sorry. Truly." 
                 "Oh." She studied me as a suspicious puppy might, then said, "I'm sorry, too." 
                 "I suppose I sound like I'm bragging when I talk of the things I'm tired of." 
                 "Only because you are." She smiled. 
                 I had to grin, so I did. "True." 
                 "He may come to dinner?" 
                 "If you wish, he may be dinner." 
                 "I love you." 
                 "And I, you." Months earlier, we might have sought a bed, a couch, or a
                    comfortable chair at this point. Instead, I asked, "Is he handsome?" 
                 "You're jealous." 
                 "A tiny bit. Extremely." 
                 "Content yourself, old one. He's four inches shorter than I, his nose is big and
                    broken, and --" 
                 "This is cosmetic?" 
                 "He's not that ugly. I think they're his natural features." 
                 "Interesting." 
                 "You could write a play about someone like him." 
                 "Perhaps." 
                 "I think his face is his form of vanity. It's the reverse of you with those
                    ridiculous stomach muscles. Old men should be fat." 
                 "Is Emil?" 
                 "Yes." 
                 "I am jealous. I'll eat two dinners tonight. Five deserts." 
                 She giggled. And then we did make love. 
            
            

                 I've been thinking about the mindwipe, now two days away. Who said that those
                    who forget the past are doomed to repeat it? I fear that may be true for me. Add
                    this to the reasons I write now: to remember something, perhaps even to learn -- 
                 Emil Malaquez arrived after sundown, carrying a small package wrapped in what
                    looked like real paper. His evening dress was formal, expensive, and slightly
                    stained, as that of all forgetful artists should be. He was a jovial man with an
                    easy laugh, and even uglier than Tasha had suggested. I liked him immediately. 
                 "Se単or Malaquez?" 
                 "Please. Call me Emil. You must be Bernardo. Tasha's told me much about you." 
                 "All of it outrageous praise?" 
                 "All of it." 
                 "Ah, she is wonderfully perceptive." 
                 He raised an eyebrow, then guffawed. "Has she said as much about me?" 
                 "She thinks you are a genius. Do come in." 
                 "Thank you." Stepping into the living room, he said, "A beautiful house." 
                 "I'm glad you came after dark." 
                 Tasha, by accident or design, had found an innocently erotic posture on the
                    couch, where she lay with a book of M'duvian prints. "Emil!" She leapt up. "I
                    did not expect you --" 
                 "So early?" 
                 " --on time. It's unforgiveable, but you're forgiven." She nodded at the
                    package. "What's that?" 
                 "For your kindness in inviting a stranger into your home." He held it out, and
                    with a delighted "Oh!" Tasha snatched it from him to rip away the paper. 
            
            
                 I stopped writing, and only the thought that I might miss the mindwipe kept me
                    from another spree. I went walking, but after N'apulco, Rio seems no fit abode
                    for a creature of flesh. I walked from this hotel to the old city, past the end
                    of the slidewalks and softwalks to the hard, cracked pavement of City Park. But
                    Undersiders left me alone. Perhaps they recognized a fellow ghost. So I
                    returned, and slept, and now the mindwipe is thirteen hours away. 
            
            
                 The side of Malaquez's parcel gave way to reveal a greenmunk caught in a sheen
                    of solid air. Bits of leaf mold flew from under his feet as he ran to greet a
                    friend or a bringer of food. Tasha oohed in awe. I said, "Frodo's been visiting
                    you, eh?" 
                 Malaquez said, "Your pet?" 
                 "Hardly. He lives around here somewhere. I suppose he was attracted to the
                    commotion up the hill." 
                 "Ah," Malaquez said. "Why 'Frodo'?" 
                 Tasha said, "A little fellow with big, furry feet. What else could he be
                    called?" She handed the sculpture to me. 
                 I almost dropped it; I expected it to weigh no more than a holo. "Heavy," I
                    said, as if he might not have known. 
                 He laughed. "My last piece was of four old Undersiders crouched around a trash
                    fire. Be glad someone didn't toss that to you." He spoke of his art with the
                    enthusiasm of a seven-year-old. "Um, I should wait to importune you, but..." He
                    grinned shyly. "A confession, and then a request. And then you must forgive me
                    for being so forward. It's not easy for me to ask a favor." 
                 "Relax," I said. "It's easy for me to turn one down." 
                 He glanced at me and decided I was joking. The surprising thing is that I was.
                    "Good. My last show --" 
                 " --was glorious!" Tasha said. 
                 " --was kindly received," he said. "But an artist who would stay first among his
                    fellows can tell when he begins to fail." 
                 "Oh?" I hoped no one would bring up my last three plays. 
                 "I must change my subject matter. No more urchins, dopers, vagrants, or whores.
                    I want to do more traditional portraits." He spoke quickly, prepared to be
                    rejected. "Would you permit me to do one of you? I would pay --" 
                 "Never," I said. 
                 "Ah." He shrugged lightly. 
                 "Nardo!" Tasha said. "It's an honor --" 
                 "Of course," I said. "That's why I cannot take payment." 
                 "Oh? Oh! Thank you!" Malaquez turned to Tasha. "And you as well? Perhaps the two
                    of you together?" 
                 Her eyes became circles at the idea of being, as she undoubtedly thought it,
                    immortalized by Emil Malaquez. Catching herself, she said casually, "Oh..." And
                    then she smiled, laughed loudly at herself in the way that always made me think
                    how much I loved her, and said, "My God, yes, yes, yes!" For a perfect moment,
                    Emil and Tasha and I were one entity, laughing until our lungs hurt. 
                 This is torture. I had not considered that I might not write to learn, but to
                    punish myself. Let me abuse the playwright and dismiss the penultimate scene in
                    a few sentences: After giving Emil full rights to a sculpture of Tasha and me,
                    we had a good dinner of curried clam chowder, lobsters boiled on Terra and
                    unstopped still steaming on N'Apulco, and cinnamon custard for desert. Then we
                    went out for a late swim. 
                 I had drunk too much, I confess, though we all had. Somehow, Tasha and I began
                    to argue the worth of Solevgrad jazz, as inconsequential a topic as I can
                    imagine. She had studied it in school, so she thought herself as an expert. I
                    once had a neighbor who played it constantly, loudly, and badly, so I thought I
                    knew it better. Malaquez tried to mediate, but I saw him as siding with Tasha.
                    So, I think, did she. The subject shifted from music to Tasha's obsession with
                    fame, undoubtedly by a leap that I made. She had no choice but to follow. (I do
                    not remember any of this well, just now, nor do I care to. Those who are truly
                    curious may look at the last act of "Captured Moments.") I remember suggesting,
                    with characteristic tact, that she add Emil to her small list of major
                    accomplishments. 
                 Malaquez glanced away, embarrassed. Tasha looked at me as if to say, "I will."
                    She said, "I feel sorry for you, Nardo. I'll see Emil home." 
                 "Yes," I said, "Do that," and did not care what she did, or why. 
                 Emil asked, "You're all right?" I muttered something he must have interpreted as
                    assent. They both walked up to Emil's home while I watched the scarlet moonlight
                    ripple on distant waves. Disgusted with Tasha but more disgusted with myself, I
                    finally realized she would not return that night and went into The Sleeping
                    Flamingo to drink myself to sleep. 
                 She had not come home when I woke in mid-morning. I waited, and drank a glass of
                    MorningAfter and three cups of coffee, and wondered whether our affair could
                    survive the events of the night, and whether I wanted it to. Perhaps I should
                    have invited Emil to stay, but even then I knew that sex was not the problem
                    between Tasha and me. The problem was that I have trouble distinguishing between
                    compromise and capitulation, between symbols and substance. Shortly before noon,
                    I climbed the sandy path to Dream's End, rehearsing my apology, slowing only to
                    pluck burrs from between my sandals and my feet. 
                 Malaquez answered the door in blood-red pajamas and a black silk robe. Sixty
                    years ago in a similar situation, I had broken my knuckles on someone's face. I
                    merely said, "Is Tasha here?" 
                 He pursed his lips slightly, then nodded. "Yes." 
                 "May I see her?" When he hesitated, I said, "Last night was my fault. I hold it
                    against neither of you. Please. Let me talk to her." 
                 "I --" 
                 "Please." 
                 He looked me and at last said, "Very well." 
                 We walked through his house in silence. It was as attractive and as impersonal
                    as a decorator could arrange for tenants of unknown taste. A tall, narrow
                    stopbox stood in the center of one room; sand trickled forever downward while
                    beads of water splashed across the sand's path. If that was Malaquez's work, it
                    was a very minor effort. But then, I was in no mood to consider art. I only
                    wanted to despise the man who had slept with my lover. That was easier than
                    despising myself. 
                 He paused before a bedroom door. "I should go in first. To prepare her." 
                 I smiled. "She handles surprise surprisingly well." 
                 "What would it hurt?" 
                 "True. Go ahead. Tell her..." I shrugged. "Tell her I love her." 
                 He studied me, then said, "I'm sorry things happened this way, Bernardo. I
                    didn't anticipate last night --" 
                 "I'm very good at making things happen this way. But if Tasha will forgive me
                    --" 
                 He nodded, repeated, "I am sorry," then slipped into the next room. I waited in
                    the dark, carpeted hall. A warm breeze came from silent vents above me. I heard
                    no voices until Malaquez said, "Enter." 
                 I blinked when I opened the door. Sunlight filled Malaquez's bedroom. Tasha lay
                    sprawled nude on a rumpled bed. Her skin seemed as smooth and as polished as the
                    bed's teak frame. She was looking slightly to my left, smiling with trust and
                    satisfaction like one sexually content. Malaquez stood near her, pointing
                    something at my chest. Though the morning sun shone fully on both of them, it
                    shimmered around Tasha. 
                 The part of my mind that remembered four months in NorAm during the Great
                    Cleaning sent me rolling across the floor. Malaquez was not prepared for me to
                    react so quickly, or perhaps he waited too long for an expression I would not
                    have, a gesture I would not make, a poignant moment of repentence, wonder,
                    despair, or love. Had he been faster, he could have had rage. I threw a chair at
                    him. As he fell, I scrambled onto him, my knees pinning his arms, my fingers
                    probing his neck. 
                 I shouted, "Where is she? Tell me, or I'll kill --" 
                 He began to cry. "She left. Earlier this morning --" 
                 Her clothes lay by the cube enclosing the bed. I hit him with the back of my
                    hand. "Tell me, Malaquez." 
                 "She wanted to be famous. She did! Now she will be." 
                 He seemed to expect me to understand. "Where!" I demanded, squeezing his throat
                    until he began jerking his head madly at the sculpture. 
                 I stared at the naked Tasha. Most of his story I have pieced together since, but
                    I understood enough as I knelt on his chest with my hands tight on his fleshy
                    throat. He had made his name with a home capturador. He began with small animals
                    and moved on to derelicts and Undersiders, people who would never be missed. Now
                    he had thought to use vacationers like Tasha and me, and when someone came
                    looking, he would say we had gone island-hopping in our windboat. Our boat would
                    disappear into the ocean to be found or not as the wind and tides chose. His
                    story would stand in either case. 
                 I wanted him to tell me more, but he babbled, begging me to forgive him, to
                    understand. I did not listen. I took the capturador, a matte black Tiempo
                    Capturado, from his grip and studied it, not really thinking about it or
                    Malaquez or Tasha. I think I was wondering what it meant to say that a thing was
                    art, so we accepted it as art. Or perhaps I was thinking about the things that
                    humanity made that would outlive our species. But I was probably only looking at
                    my reflection in the capturador's lens. Had he said then that I should use it on
                    myself, I might have. 
                 That moment passed. I looked at Malaquez. His eyes opened wider while we watched
                    each other. His lips contorted as if they had lost their ability to shape sound.
                    I turned to touch the cube that was Tasha's crypt. She smiled in trust or
                    pleasure or pride, an erotic Mona Lisa who would smile forever, and I could
                    never know why. 
                 The controls of the capturador were more complex than those of a kitchen model,
                    but I recognized the unstop tab. I could free Tasha. If I did, one of three
                    things would happen. Most likely: she would be meat --there is a reason why
                    stopboxes are most often used in kitchens. Less likely: she would live the rest
                    of her days with a mind as free of worry as a slug's. And the tiniest chance of
                    all: she would blink as if I had just materialized in Emil's bedroom, and then
                    she would laugh and tell me that she was going to be immortal. 
                 As I put my hand on the impervious surface of Tasha's stopbox, I heard Malaquez
                    run for the door. 
                 It is strange to know that we can do acts of unrepayable kindness to those we
                    should hate. Know this, my future self: Thanks to us, Emil Malaquez's name will
                    live as long as his masterpiece, "A Self-Portrait: Anguish," endures. 
                 And Tasha? I could say that I did not dare to take responsibility for her fate.
                    I could say that I chose out of consideration for her desire for fame; some
                    critics already say "Waking With Tasha" is Malaquez's finest work. If science
                    finds a way to safely free the subjects of Emil's art, perhaps the I who reads
                    this file will know that my decision is wise. But I cannot stop thinking that I
                    was never afraid of losing Tasha to brain damage or death. My fear is that she
                    would live, and I would learn that I had lost her long before Emil Malaquez
                    translated her into a thing that can be kept, admired, and loved. 
                 For in my way, I have done the same thing. 
                 I am ready for the mindwipe now. 

            
        
    

   
      
         Easy Money
         by Bill Glover
         Charles Acres called me on a Thursday afternoon, just like that. I hadn't seen him since high-school, maybe twenty years before, and we were never buddies in the first place. He said he had a "business proposition" for me. So I'm thinking "Amway," and I said so. He sounded surprised and said no, he needed me to help him get rid of "a large quantity of gold." I told him I'd meet him for coffee at the diner down the street at seven. I was there early.
         "Thank you for coming, Ed." he was already there, sitting in a booth, warming his hands on a cup of coffee. He looked like jerked meat on the bone. He was wearing a new jacket and snow boots, but he had on a Hawaiian shirt underneath and khaki shorts of all things. His tan was obviously deep and old, but it looked like a work tan, not the kind you get at the beach. His hands were thin and huge knuckled with obvious callouses.
         "So, the mining business is treating you pretty good, huh Charles?" he wasn't the sort you'd call "Chuck."
         "I'm a linguistics researcher, Ed." He took a sip and closed his eyes like the cheap cup of coffee was really something special. "Well I was a researcher, and I taught a little at a community college." He set the cup down and looked straight at me for the first time. "How's your um... business?"
         "Fine." I waived down a waitress and ordered a cup of decaf and a slice of pie. I didn't like his tone much. "So you sure you're not a cop, Charles?" I stared him down until he flinched. As I did, I noticed just how tired he looked around the eyes. Charlie Boy had been working hard lately, I figured. I knew every cop in Fairport and quite a few of the state police in Iowa, and I couldn't see them bringing old Charles in as a ringer.
         "I'm not a cop." He sighed and went on in softer, sadder voice, "I guess I'm a thief now."
         "Hold it." I looked around. Charles might be for real, but he was still going to get me in deep trouble. "Let's make real clear right now that you were joking, buddy. Otherwise this conversation is over. I've got a parole officer to explain things to, and he wouldn't like that kinda talk."
         "Right. Right. Sorry." Charles looked out the window at the passing traffic push through dirty slush for awhile. "Like I was saying. I'm a researcher, I've come into some valuable material that I would like to find a buyer for, and I don't want to have to explain myself to anyone."
         The pie came and I waited until the waitress was gone, before going on, "Why me?"
         "You always seemed to have 'connections' in school," he shrugged. "You were the first person who came to mind."
         First person? Twenty years out of high school? If he pulled my leg any harder it was coming off. "How much of this 'valuable material' are we talking about?"
         "Four Hundred ounces for a start."
         "Four Hundred." I pulled out my palm phone and looked up a number. "That's alot."
         "It's a very small part of what I have to sell." He drained the last of his cup and tossed some bills on the table. "I'm staying in town. Let me show you something."
         I thought about it and made a quick call, just telling a buddy that I was "postponing our meeting," for a couple of hours, meaning he should come looking for me if I didn't show up. Charles might not look like much, but I hadn't made it through my life taking that kind of chance. I put away the cell and used the motion to cover checking the knife in my sleeve and used one leg to check the other in my sock. I had been an amateur magician for years. One of my best tricks was pulling a knife out of thin air. It never failed to amaze. "Sure. Let's go," I said.
         We took his rental car back to the motel where he was staying. The little desk was covered with large books filled with sticky notes, a pile of folders and papers and a laptop computer plugged into the phone line. There was only one chair, so I sat on the edge of the bed as he handed me a book open to a picture of some sort of stone tablet.
         "Rapa Nui," he said, "Easter Island. This codex is one of the few remaining examples of a form of writing known as 'rongorongo.' For a long time no one was able to decipher it, although by deduction, Steven Fischer deciphered some of it in nineteen ninety four. He mostly read creation stories off objects like the 'Santiago Staff' which said things like, 'All the birds copulated with fish: There issued forth the sun.'But he ignored the inscriptions on skulls and the 'Birdman' statuette. It was those clues that started all of this." My small expectations shrank as he spoke. I didn't see much money in hieroglyphic porn. He talked on about people with long ears who built the big statues, the "moai" and people with short ears who conquered the people with long ears and ate them and how the short eared people didn't really know the secrets of the long ears and had pulled down all the moai statues and destroyed some of the tablets. And how the missionaries came and the converted natives had destroyed more. He flipped pages to another image, "But notice something here in the arrangement of the moai. See here how they form a pattern, very similar to this?" He pulled out a small leather diary and opened it to a yellowed page marked with yet another small sticky note. There was an ink drawing and writing in a tiny neat hand that I couldn't read from where I sat. I didn't see much resemblance except maybe there were about the same number of points in the cat's cradle thing in the diary and the number of dots on the map showing places where statues stood in a thin line around the coast of the island. "This is the diary of a mysterious explorer named Samuel Curlew who investigated a Mound Builder site in this area in the early eighteen hundreds." He closed the little book and just about hugged it with satisfaction. "I want to show you that mound. You know it was these very mounds that originally sparked my interest in history, archeology and then linguistics."
         "And this mound is where you found gold?" I was confused enough I let the "G word" slip. Was this some crazy treasure hunt? Or maybe this guy was just a wacko who wanted to take me out on a dark road and kill me.
         "No, it's more complicated than that, but I need to show you the mound for you to understand." The drawings and the books seemed to wake him up. He was smiling now and his eyes weren't so tired.
         I was having serious cash flow issues back then and had payments to make, so I said, "yes," but my patience was running out.
         It was dark as we left. The drive was shorter than I expected. We pulled up to a little asphalt parking spot in front of a historical marker. When he killed the headlights there was no light but moonlight and stars on a light dusting of snow. A low, black hill blocked the sky right in front of us. "It's up here," he announced stepping over the cable fence and starting up the hill. We spent the next hour stomping around the hill while he said things like, "it was right here."
         My patience was long gone, and I was back in the car to warming up when Acres tapped on the window and told me he had found whatever he was looking for. We trudged back up the hill and he led me to little patch of ground with a stick poking up from it. It looked like a bamboo walking stick. "This is it," he leaned down and motioned for me to look at something on the ground. I casually slid a knife into my palm just in case. "See how the lines form the pattern in the journal, the same one as the moai."
         "So you drew this?" I asked vaguely, slow to catch on.
         He looked hurt and rapped on the ground with his finger. "It's stone. Ancient." He stood up using the stick to help. For the first time he looked cold and stiff in his tourist gear, making me glad I was in a suit. "Here stand beside me," he said. "I'm not sure if I can take you with me so I need to show you the device."
         "Device?" I expected him to pull out a gadget with blinking lights and was wondering which way to duck.
         "Trick, gesture. It's like sleight of hand." He wriggled his fingers and then blew on them. "OK, watch and remember this. I'm going to do it in two parts, last part first so it won't take effect. Remember to reverse the two parts when you actually do it." Stunned I watched as he made several ridiculous passes with his hands paused and nodded then did a sort of sign language stutter of some sort. "I learned this from a skull shard rongorongo, they aren't all writing language. Some are just a memory device."
         "Mnemonic." I muttered, which seemed to please him.
         "Yes. They help in remembering steps in a ritual or ceremonial gestures. There's a long history of Polynesian gesture and dance language. Now you do it." He smiled and I could see his teeth in the moonlight.
         I wanted to slug him, but he had the keys to the car back and I figured I'd humor him while I figured out how to get them without violating my parole. I didn't have much trouble duplicating his hand waving even though I hadn't paid much attention. I even swapped the two parts as he had asked. I thought he was surprised at my dexterity when his jaw dropped, but he shouted, "No!" just before everything changed.
         I was standing on a perfectly flat square of dark stone. For as far as I could see by a weak, gray light the stone stepped up and down making little hills and terraces and platforms. I seemed to be somewhere in the middle -- there was as much above as below. The sky was dull and featureless and overcast. The air smelled bad in some way I can't describe, and at my feet I could see the same design from the little journal and the mound carved into the rock. I was in shock. The blood pounded in my head, and I just stood there blinking and listening to a sort of ringing whine in my ears.
         The next moment, Acres was there. Hands up in the same way mine were frozen. We just looked at each other. I guess, thinking back, I might have expected him to gloat, but the view was the kind of thing that humbles you, shuts your mouth. We just stood looking at each other for a little while, I don't know how long.
         "What is it?" was all I could think to say.
         Acres just shrugged. "A place. I don't know. I think this whole thing," he waved his hand at the horizon, "is one big machine. And the markers were carved later, not be whoever built it. The markers are places where it's safe to come here and leave."
         "Safe?" I looked around. One thing this place didn't seem was safe.
         "Let me show you the rest." He started walking down the steps and around a corner. It would have taken plenty to surprise me after what I had already seen, but My jaw was banging against my shoelaces when I rounded that corner.
         I'm not sure how something so big could have been hidden by that little turn in landscape, but maybe perspective doesn't work quite the same there. Glaring down at me from no more than twenty feet away was a grimacing, thirty foot tall black face with staring, blue and white eyes and it wore a ridiculous little hat. For some reason I thought of a giant clown face from a carnival ride, but it scared the hell out me. Acres stood beside it and somehow using him as a yardstick for the scale of the thing made it easier to see. It was a moai. He had a serious, sincere look on his face and he was pointing to the ground. "This is what I wanted to show you."
         I looked down and saw he was pointing to another marker just slightly different from the one we had just left. I was pretty rattled, but things fell together for me looking at the big statue, the Hawaiian shirt and the mark on the ground. "Easter Island?"
         Acres nodded.
         It was all too much for me so I focused on the part I could handle. "So what does this have to do with gold?"
         "You could step on that marker and make the gestures, the 'device,' and it would be like pushing a button in a very complex machine. You would end up on a small hill on Rapa Nui. You could step three feet to the right and do the same thing, and you would end up buried alive in a nearby rock face. But I know how to make it take me anywhere." He pulled a sheet of folded paper from his pocket and handed it to me. It read, "Department of the Treasury, Financial Management Service, Status Report of U.S. Treasury-Owned Gold." He pointed to a row that read, "Deep Storage: Fort Knox, KY."
         I sucked in a whole lot of air. "Anywhere?"
         "Anywhere," he walked around the moai and came back wrestling with a big, heavy bar of gold. "They only check deep storage once a year. Otherwise the vault is sealed."
         "Does anyone else know about this? How much is that?"
         "No, they would have been on Rapa Nui if they knew, ready to stop me. This is the 400 ounces which I mentioned at the restaurant. About $150,000 dollars at this morning's rate."
         I looked at the sheet in my hand. "Deep Storage: Fort Knox, Ky." it read, "147,341,858.382 Fine Troy Ounces, Book Value: $6,221,097,412.78" I had to read it twice. I had never seen a dollar sign in front of that many number before. "I thought they didn't keep gold there anymore, just nerve gas."
         "The gold is still there. How much can we sell before someone becomes suspicious?" Charles put the bar down and slid a web pouch over it with shoulder straps like a small backpack.
         "None," I said and slipped the knife into his neck right at the base of his skull. Call me small minded, but you know "a bird in the hand." All that gold in Fort Knox was just too much for me to wrap my head around. But I could handle a hundred and fifty-K easy, say seventy-five-K from the fence. I slipped the little pouch over my back and wiped the knife on his jacket. Then I made my way back to the little marker where we came in. His mistake had been in telling me the same gesture opened the door the other way. I worried for just a moment when I started waving my hands. "What if it didn't work?" So the icy wind at the top of the mound and the bright moon came as a real relief.
         The gold was heavy on my back, and I was all the way to the car before I realized I had left the keys on Charles.
         The highway patrol was just bound to come by then. After that it was just connect the dots back to prison. The rental car records pointed to Acres, and there was enough blood on the knife to match DNA from Acres comb in the motel. They never bothered trying to explain how Acres made it into the country without a ticket on a plane or a boat. But they speculated all through the trial about where the gold came from, offered me deals. The prosecution liked the idea that Acres was my smuggler's mule. I was a one man gold cartel in the news.
         I'm just wondering what they'll think when they open that vault in Kentucky. And I still wonder why Charles picked me? Maybe he didn't know anybody else with "connections." But mostly, I'm wondering what will happen when I try to make those gestures, that "device" right here in my cell? Acres said it was dangerous, but maybe I could find my way back to the mound or Easter Island even. I figure it can't be worse than the lethal injection that's waiting for me at dawn. I don't really believe I'll make it or I wouldn't say a thing. But if I do make it, it won't matter what I tell you, because there won't be a jail that can hold me. I'm leaving this just to tell "whom it may concern" to kiss my ever-lovin' ass. Wish me luck. I out of here.
         
         



>Hotel California

Fact: Sound is a vibration. Sound travels as a mechanical wave through a medium, and in space, there is no
medium. So when my shuttle malfunctioned and the airlocks didn't keep the air in, I heard nothing. After the
first whoosh of the air being sucked away, there was lightning, but no thunder. Eyes bulging in
panic, but no screams. Quiet and peaceful, right? Such a relief to never again hear my crewmate Jesse natter
about his girl back on Earth and that all-expenses-paid vacation-for-two she won last time he was on leave. I
swore, if I ever had to see a photo of him in a skimpy bathing suit again, giving the camera a cheesy thumbs-up
from a lounge chair on one of those white sandy beaches, I'd kiss a monkey. Metaphorically, of course.

Fact: If, before all the air is sucked out of the ship, a person is so lucky to have stuffed him or herself
into a space suit, that person has less than twenty-four hours to live. This is more than the person would have
sans space suit. Me, I found a space suit, but it was statistically unlikely that I, and whomever else has
followed suit (pun intended), would manage to repair our ship before the less-than-twenty-four hours are up;
yes, studies have been done. So, twenty-four hours. Give or take.

About the time I was composing my last words in my head, trying not to think too much about what suffocating
felt like, that's when I heard a bell.

My first thought: I was going crazy. Twenty-four hours of silence (vacuum, remember); was I hallucinating
noises now?

I heard it again. It was a fine bell, reminiscent of ancient stone churches and the towering cathedrals I'd
seen in documentaries. And accompanying the bell, I saw a light.

Now, there were two things here that made ridiculously small amounts of sense. First, the whole in-a-vacuum
why's-there-a-bell thing. Second, I was floating in the dark remnants of my broken ship, and any conceivable
light sources were not within view; starlight is a distinctly different color and significantly less
bright.

These signals were the heralds of my saviors.

The first words they said to me meant nothing. I wasn't listening; I didn't care; I was going to live; I was
going to keep breathing. Next to those, nothing else mattered. The recycled air tasted sweet in my mouth, and
all thoughts that crossed my mind were cheap metaphors about life-giving substances and how breathing was like
sex, only better. (I reserved the right to revise this opinion later.)

When I was done mentally exclaiming over my impossible rescue, I looked around. The ship, it was odd and
old, either so outdated or so heavily modified that I couldn't tell what make it was, and somehow, the crew
standing around me fit the same description, a singularly atypical amalgamation of folk. And me, I guess I was
one more piece in their puzzle. I was one more scrap to weld onto the rest, one more stranded survivor who was
found.

I was now one of them.

This story, it's our story. The survivors of the unfortunate accidents, the catastrophic malfunctions, the
fateful crashes: this is us. Floating alone, each of us facing the silence of the vacuum, we were found.

Once found, we can never be lost.

This is our Hotel California.

We can never leave.

So, I'm on a ship now? You do this a lot?

A woman, introduced as Tiffany and neither tall nor beautiful, shrugged. Now and then.

What about my crewmates? Why didn't you save them? As much as Jesse had irritated me, I didn't like the
picture my brain drew of him floating in his grave, body swollen and bloated. Who would tell his girl how he
had died?

Couldn't, said the captain. Jefferson, he called himself, clean-shaven and smart, a picture of the perfect
entrepreneur. An opportunist and a businessman, that was Jefferson. We're selective about our passengers, he
continued. You fit the bill. They didn't.

Tiffany, she looked at the captain, grinned and flipped her greasy brown locks over her shoulder. She turned
to me. Come on, she said, before I could say anything else, let's get you settled in. No time for
questions. No time for answers.

 The ship had all the usual accoutrements (artificial gravity, tastefully painted walls, sound dampeners to
keep the noise of the engines from driving the crew batshit insane, recycled air systems), and a few
less-usual: lush carpeting, lighting that was decorative as well as functional, spacious corridors. The
occasional painting hung on the wall (generic landscapes and portraits of old people no one has ever met,
primarily). Glimpses of elegant rooms down the branching hallways; music; voices; the aroma of real food.

This was heaven. No seventy-two virgins, but it would do.

Where are we going? I asked.

Tiffany looked back. To your quarters. It's not far; you're not going to get blisters.

No, I meant, where's the ship going? What's our destination?

Tiffany, she stopped walking. She gave me a look, pitying and a little pleased that she got to be the one to
share the news. Honey, she said, You're going to be delighted. Destination everywhere. Destination
nowhere.

This was hell. I died in those last moments, suffocating on my own exhaled breath, and this, this was my
reward.

Fact: The speed of sound in dry air at twenty degrees Celsius or sixty-eight degrees Fahrenheit is three
hundred and forty-three meters per second, or one thousand one hundred twenty-five feet per second.

It took me a couple days to realize I was, in fact, still alive. I mean, sure, I'd had my moment of elation
when I had first realized I'd been rescued, but it didn't sink in. After watching my ship tear apart, after
spending a good twenty-three hours floating in silence in the wreck, wondering whether I was currently facing
stars belonging to the constellation Libra or the constellation Orion when those stars were viewed from Earth,
wondering what it felt like to suffocate, and after the feeling that yes, I was in fact going to die alone in
space had sunk in, it took time for that feeling to dissipate.

Fact: I wasn't dead.

After I realized this, I left my quarters. The lightscreen provided had informed me when and where official
meals were taking place, but I hadn't bothered to acknowledge the invitations. It hadn't seemed relevant,
somehow, given that I was still reeling over the explosion, the deaths of my crewmates, and the rescue. I've
heard there are a number of stages of grief and shock; I guess I was working my way through them. Food was
delivered to my quarters. Initially, I couldn't figure out whyI hadn't requested any be sent. Then I realized,
someone must have noticed I hadn't left, and was nice enough to send food my way. The accompanying bottle of
wine was a nice touch. I must have consumed it, too, because later on, the plates and the bottle were both
empty. I spent a lot of time lying on my back on the bed, staring up at the little etched swirls in the
ceiling, or slumped in the old-fashioned armchair, staring out the windows at the stars. I did a lot of staring
and not moving.

Man, was it good to be done with that stage. 

It was time to find out what hell looked like.

Fact: Hell is other people. Sure, the ship was spacious. We didn't pick up many passengersjust the select,
special few, scattered here and there between the stars. But we were all on this ship, and we were on it
together.

Cliques form in any decent-sized group of people. Me, I was singled out by Sarah, an unassuming
forty-something lady with a glass of champagne in one hand and the arm of a scrawny but tall blond man in the
other. She sidled up to me as I was scooping little round crackers and what appeared to be a baked cilantro
cream dip onto a plate. The plate, by the way, was already loaded with folded pieces of smoked pink fish,
paprika-dusted deviled eggs, toothpicks stabbed through green vegetables and slices of cheese, and balls of
meat smothered in a tomato-based sauce. Luxurious, even compared to the fare one would find in the high-class
space stations and pleasure cruisers. Compared to what a mere engineer would get on your typical cargo ship, it
was mouthwateringly, lip-smackingly gorgeous. I wondered if the food delivered to my quarters the past few days
had been similarly amazing. I decided it couldn't have been.

Liking the taste of the sweet life, eh? I'm Sarah, and this is Alexisyou must be the new pickup. She
looked me over approvingly. Come on, let's get you a glass of champagne. I looked longingly at the slices of
cheddar olive bread as she whisked me over to the bar, but didn't protest.

The bar was manned by an expensive humanoid robot. It turned toward Sarah's wave and acknowledged her with a
nod, moments later setting a fluted glass of sparkling liquid in front of her. I marveled at the robot's
smoothness and coordination. Clearly, it was a high-end model. Sarah transferred the glass to my free hand and
pulled me away from the bar for more introductions, with Alexis trailing after us.

I spent the evening listening, mostly. Listening and stuffing my face with all the bits of fine food
provided. No one minded; Sarah's inner circle was content to fill our circle of couches with plenty of chatter.
Ray, a plump man who was grey where he wasn't bald. Zheng, short and dark and lean, with a very intense gaze.
He made me a little uncomfortable. Kishori, petite, her hair strung out in a series of braids that reached
nearly to her waist. I categorized them based on their appearances, hoping I'd be able to pick them out of the
crowd again later. Most of their chatter was meaningless to mestories of day-to-day activities, how so-and-so
had been seen in so-and-so's table at lunch and my wasn't that a surprise, and why hadn't the chef concocted
this delectable a selection of appetizers for the dance the other night, but of course those rolled meat
pastries reminded one of the pastries back on Earth, didn't they, and this was somehow an interesting fact.

After the first half-hour, I stopped expending effort to keep names and stories and gossip straight. I
wasn't learning anything useful. I could have started asking questions, but I wanted to get my bearings first.
Tonight was for observation. I didn't bother trying to seek out a different group of potentially more
interesting people, though. They all looked the same: clusters of social butterflies surrounded by the less
apt, the hangers-on, the circle with whom the gossip was shared. I wondered at the ship instead. All the fine
food and the ornamental lighting, it had to be exorbitantly pricey to maintain. If the barkeep was any
indication, I suspected similarly high-class robots fulfilled other positions on the ship. How they were all
powered was a mysteryas good as the technology got, a quality robot like that was still an energy sink. It was
the brain, mostly; the amount of information the machine had to process to be able to function at the level it
did ate up a lot of resources.

Sarah's crowd took turns taking my champagne flute to the bar to be refilled, all seemingly pleased to have
a new set of ears to talk at. I slowly returned my attention to the conversation and was pleasantly surprised
to find that it had turned to a heated analysis of a recent abstract filmdone in the style of old flatscreen
moviesthat I had seen during off-time at Geminia Station.

By the end of the evening, when I finally followed the slow trickle of people out of the room, a satisfying
haze had settled on my mind. It was nice, I decided. This ship. This life. The nagging questions about where
the ship had come from and what its purpose in rescuing me was still nagged, but somehow, seemed less urgent.
Did it truly matter what the ship's origin was and why Jefferson had saved me, if now, I was content?

Fact: It's easy to fall into patterns. I would wake late, checking the clock on my room's lightscreen to
make sure I hadn't slept through brunch. I would join the rest of the ship for meals, and I would take my turn
in the weight room. I would watch old films on the entertainment screens, taking mental notes for later
dinnertime discussions. I would immerse myself in new virtual reality flicks. I would attend afternoon dance
classes, so that when the evening dances came around (modeled after the historical social gatherings of several
hundred years prior), I would be less of an embarrassment to myself.

I did not ask questions. I told myself I should. I told myself that tonight, the observation period would
end and I'd start puzzling out the ship's mystery. But I fell under the ship's sway. Bereft of my previous
familiar life, I latched onto Kishori and Ray and Zheng, and Sarah with Alexis dragged along on her arm now and
then (he was mostly her favorite dancing partner; she confided to us one night that his conversational skills
left something to be desired). I smothered thoughts of friends back on Earththis was my long-awaited vacation,
my clean break and my temporary retreat; I'd try contacting those friends tomorrow. I continued to care little
for shipwide gossip, but our discussions of films and flicks, old and new, brought out my artistic,
story-loving, argumentative side, a side of me I'd tucked into a back storage compartment during my years as an
engineer. It was a good life, if surreal. But I wasn't sure I wanted the dream stage to end.

Fact: Some places are timeless. Days passed, weeks passed, but I couldn't tell if it had been months or
years since I was rescued. All there was, all I remembered, was a blur. Gathering for drinks in the parlors,
playing dress up with all the fine clothes I found in the closets (some of it modern, some of it period dress
for special themed events), idling in the lounges. Now and then, a new face mingled in the crowd. Other faces
washed out, fading into the backdrop of carpets and fake glass chandeliers and the muted hum of the
engines.

One of these evenings, we were gathered in the South Ballroom for post-dinner drinks, lounging on couches
and watching other members of our populace move in circles on the dance floor. (The 'South' was in the title to
suggest that there were more ballrooms. There weren't.) Sarah's circle had picked up another newcomer,
Adrienne, a short blond girl who we all agreed was barely old enough to attend a traditional university back on
Earth, let alone work on the ship in whose wreck Jefferson had found her. Maybe it was her curiosity, asking a
question I should have asked long before, that turned the conversation serious; maybe there was just something
special about that evening. Maybe we had all tired of the frivolity of our life, hitting some threshold or some
breaking point. Regardless, when Adrienne asked what the ship's purpose was, we all gave it a measure of
thought. We dredged up half-fledged theories and inchoate explanations, tossing these out the same way we
pitched ideas about the art films.

I believe we'll see the end of the universe, said Tiffany. Captain's cohort, she had a glass of
orange-brown liquid in one hand; it might have been orange juice and some kind of berry liquor. She swirled it
speculatively. I watched Adrienne. She tilted her head, listening, not speaking.

Impossible, said Zheng, sitting in the chair to her left. We can't live that long.

Maybe the universe will end sooner than you think, said Jefferson. Yeah, the captain was there, with the
rest of us. He didn't drink, but he made a point of mingling with all the various cliques.

Maybe we'll travel at the speed of light and we won't age, said Sarah, setting her wine glass on the
little round end table by her couch. Maybe we're already traveling at the speed of light. 

Tiffany, she nodded eagerly. Relatively says it all.

Zheng scoffed. Also impossible. Even if we were traveling at ninety-nine percent of the speed
of lightthat's assuming you ignore science and pretend that such a thing is possible, because it isn'twe'd
still age. We'd just appear to age slower than people not traveling as fast as us.

And? said Sarah. Aging is relative, anyway. Besides, I wouldn't mind being around forever. Give our
ancestors purpose. Keep their dreams alive.

New hypothesis, suggested Kishori, slipping into the conversation. No one's immortal. In fact, the
opposite: We're all going to die.

Bleak, commented Zheng. But I like it. He grinned at Sarah, who frowned. Ray took a drink from his glass
of ice water, and shook his head.

We're all going to die, so what better thing to do than enjoy the time we have? Kishori gestured to the
bar, the carpets, the paintings. All the luxuries money can buy.

Tiffany took a drink, thinking. All the luxuries money can buy, she echoed.

Zheng looked skeptical. Paid for how?

Smuggling, responded Kishori. Matter-of-fact. Jefferson snorted, amused. Think about it, Kishori
continued, where else would we get the money to buy all this?

Renegade smugglers. So what's our cargo, eh, captain? Zheng joked, leaning back in his chair with his
glass of wine.

Jefferson shook his head and stood up. I'll leave you to your speculation, he said. A chorus of good
nights followed him out the door.

After the captain left, Zheng leaned in. He set his glass down on an end table, steepled his fingers
together. We're revolting, he told us. And I don't mean that you disgust me. No, we're the start of a
rebellion. Did you hear what the captain said earlier? He means, we're going to change the future. The universe
as we know it won't be the same.

That's dumb, said Sarah. Wouldn't we know it if we were part of a rebellion?

Zheng shook his head. The captain selected us for a reason. He has inside intelligencehow else would he
know where to find us? He knows about us.

That's still dumb, said Sarah. Inside intelligence? Don't you remember, there's not exactly one big
galactic government from which to steal information.

I still like my idea, said Tiffany.

Me, I followed Adrienne's example and didn't speak up (fabricating excuses to myself to stay safely in
gather-info observation mode), though I thought Zheng had a point. Jefferson didn't share how he found people.
He didn't share how he knew exactly where the wrecks were, or why he saved some people but not others. But then
again, no one asked. I guess we all figured, he knew what he was doing. He had been at this savior business
longer than any of us. I wondered if Adrienne would ask about that.

We're going to mean something, Zheng was saying. What we do, rebelling against the oppression of the many
governments that oppose us, we're going to leave a legacy. He sounded certain. Enthusiastic, even.

Ray, he shook his head, and broke the quiet he'd held most of the evening. You've got it all wrong. He
looked from Sarah, to Adrienne, to Zheng, to Kishori and Tiffany, to me. Obviously, we can't last longer than
the rest of the universe. We aren't giving anyone purpose. We're not even going to leave a legacy. All we're
doing is existing. All we're doing is eating and drinking and shitting, breathing and fucking and nothing
important, ever. We aren't special.

Again, bleak, commented Zheng. Adrienne gestured for him to be quiet. She leaned forward, setting her
elbows on the foot stool in front of her.

You never know when it will end, Ray continued, not addressing any one of us in particular. You can't
hold on forever, even if you don't ever, ever want to forget. How long until the memories slip away? How long
until all you remember is this, the ship, the thick red carpeting, the chandeliers, the empty conversations you
hold with the other shells who used to be people? When your life, the reason you lived, the people and faces
and places, the emotions you felt, who and what you loved, when all that is gone, faded, what will you have
left?

I wondered how long Ray had been on this ship. I wondered why, if he had such an unpropitious outlook, he
hadn't tried to change his situation. I wanted to ask, but he was still talking, and I was too self-conscious
to interrupt.

You can try to hold on, said Ray. You can try and try and try. Repeat stories to yourself in the
artificial night, sketch faces in your mind. You can make their names your mantra. But words, if you repeat
them enough times, lose their meaning. Emily emily em-ill-ee em-i-lee eh-mill-ee eh-mih-lee. My wife's name,
once. Repeat it enough times, it's just a sound. No longer grounded.

Ray, he said, If we last forever, if our eyes are the last eyes watching as the stars blink out, it won't
mean a thing to us. We won't care that we're last and we won't care that there are no more stars. We aren't
angels. We're just dumb and lucky.

Pure dumb luck, he said.

Struck a nerve, huh? said Zheng. 

Sorry, said Ray. 

How long ago was that? asked Adrienne. Leaving your wife, I mean. Traveling on this ship.

Ray, he looked down at his hands, folded together in his lap, fingers interlaced. I don't know, he said.
We were all quiet for a moment. Ray shrugged, then got up and left. We let him go. Silent. Self-conscious. More
excuses were made, and after a few moments, only Adrienne and I were left sitting in the ballroom. She looked
across the circle of couches at me.

What's your theory? she asked me.

I shrugged.

How long have you been here?

Not that long, I said. A couple weeks, I guess. Maybe a month or two.

Why don't you know for sure? she asked.

I shrugged. I hadn't been counting days.

What did you do before this? How were you found?

I was an engineer. I explained how my ship had malfunctioned, no warning at all. The explosions, the
impossible rescue. I don't know how Jefferson knew to find me there.

She nodded. The ship I was on, I guess that's what happened, too. Some vital part broke, and... well,
boom. It was all so fast. She took a sip of her drink, plain water because, she had explained
earlier, she had never liked the taste of alcohol, then fixed her gaze on me. I'm going to figure it out, she
said. How and why this ship exists. I'll figure it out, then I'm going to find a way home.

I paced my room that night, unable to sleep. The more I thought about it, the less sense the ship made.
Worse, Adrienne had made this clear to me with a single question. I had spent weeks asking nothing, contentedly
getting nowhere.

Fact: Adrienne intimidated me.

Fact: It's too easy to fall into patterns.

I resolved to break the pattern.

Another evening, another chandeliered room, another swirl of conversations and dances and hor d'oevres.
Another circle of chairs and couches, another uncomfortable question.

Has anyone ever left? Adrienne looked at each of us in turn.

Ray exchanged a glance with Zheng.

Sarah frowned. Now that you mention it, I haven't seen Alexis in days. I assumed he was indisposed.
Kishori nodded in agreement.

I looked at Ray and raised an eyebrow. What?

Well, Ray said, slowly, People do leave. The approximate number of people at any given event
is always the same. But we see new faces.

You're sure it's not just some people being indisposed ?  asked Adrienne, using Sarah's
phrasing.	

Zheng shook his head and picked up a handful of candied pecans from a little dish on the end table. Keep
adding people long enough, regardless, you get more overall. A couple people staying in their rooms, even if
you switch out the people, won't make a difference. He dropped the pecans back into the dish, one by one.

So where do they go? Adrienne focused on Zheng. 

I cut in. Maybe a better question is, does anyone ever come back?

Ray and Zheng exchanged another glance. Kishori chewed her lip. Sarah shrugged and sipped at her drink.
After a moment, Ray said, I don't think so.

Are there patterns? Adrienne asked. Who leaves?

Again, there was an uncomfortable moment of silence. I hazarded a guess. You don't notice, do you.

Sarah looked indignant. Of course we notice. But... well, no one important ever disappears, so it doesn't
really matter, does it. I could tell she was trying to remember whom she had known who had left, and failing.
No one contradicted her. No one offered a different answer.

I looked at Adrienne. Mission accomplished: Our routine insouciance had been disrupted. The scales had
tipped. Even when the conversation returned to lighter tones, as it soon did, I dwelt on Adrienne's questions.
From the looks on my companions' faces, I knew they were thinking the same.

How long have you been here?

The question, previously posed to me, was presented to the rest of our group (excluding Ray; Adrienne had
been tactful enough to wait until he had gone for a refill, recalling the last time the subject was
broached).

Sarah, she tilted her head and tapped a finger on the side of her wine glass. A long time. Got to be months
and months, at least.

You were here before I was, said Kishori, and so was Tiffany.

I looked at Zheng; he shrugged. Time passes in a weird way here. I kept track for a whilethirty-eight
daysbut after that... I guess I didn't see the point.

Fact: Some places are timeless.

Why not? asked Adrienne.

Days don't matter, he said. The eleventh of a month or the seventeenth, whether it's Wednesday or Sunday,
summer back on Earth or winter, it doesn't affect us here.

Tiffany nodded, but Kishori spoke before the other woman could. Why are you so interested? she asked
Adrienne.

Adrienne met her gaze. I don't want to be here forever.

But we're not here forever, objected Sarah. Remember? Alexis left.

Disappeared, I corrected her. We don't know how or why he left. Or where he went.

Zheng looked thoughtful. He picked up his glass, swirled the liquid around, took a sip, then set the glass
back down. He glanced around at the rest of us. Do you want to leave? he asked. Could you live anywhere else
now?

I spoke up. Yes, I said. I wouldn't miss this, much. No one else said anything. I watched Adrienne's
eyes move from one face to the next.

Zheng, he addressed me again, leaning forward with his elbows on his knees and an intense, steady gaze. You
think that, he said, but is it true? Would you be happy back in a normal life, working and living and crying
in the drudgery of whatever the hell normal is these days?

I didn't answer.

Fact: It's too easy to fall into patterns.

Fact: I wasn't sure I wanted the dream stage to end.

My quarters felt stifling. Asphyxiating my mind. I sat sideways in the armchair, feet dangling over one arm,
neck resting against the other, absently tracing invisible lines between the stars outside my window as I
ruminated on the situation. The lightscreen had proved singularly unhelpful. I inspected the arrays of
entertainment optionsabstract, old-style flatscreens, engrossing VR flicks and action games, a selection of
quondam bestsellers and a few recently released novels hoping to gain popularity. There was a schedule
advertising upcoming on-ship events, such as dance classes, craft sessions, and discussion groups, and a list
of dinner invitations for me to respond to. A menu of display options, allowing me to customize all the
lightscreen's superficial characteristics. A simple contact system for communicating with other people on the
ship. That was all.

A methodical search of my two adjoining rooms, the ample closet space, and the attached bathroom facility
had similarly provided no fodder. Furniture (dark wood, expensive, polished, no secret compartments), clothes,
leftover tray of half-consumed food from the previous day's lunch, toiletries (complete with miniature bottles
of sweet-smelling apricot honey lotion), lightscreen, me.

I was discouraged and frustrated. I wanted to prove to Adrienne that I wanted solve the ship's mystery just
as much as she did. I wanted to find something, anything, that would prove all this was normal and sane. I
didn't want to think about disappearances and time and purposes and consequences.	

I wanted my contentment back.

I cornered Adrienne at dinner that night. In one hand I balanced my plate of star-shaped crackers, globs of
elegant dips and garnishes, little rolled balls of meats and cheeses stabbed through with spears of some pale
green plant, and an array of other delectable, bite-sized items. My other hand pointedly steered Adrienne to a
small table against a wall. She glared at me, but obediently let me pull her along.

Tell me, I said, after we sat, what you have found. It wasn't a question.

She gave me a grumpy look that informed me, quite clearly, of her current opinion of me. Not if you're
going to be rude about it.

I sighed. Sorry. I wasn't, not really, but I'd lie to get the conversation going. I want to know. I
explained, in two brief sentences, my earlier impasse.

I don't know much, she said, still annoyed but at least cooperative. She reviewed the information gleaned
from our previous dinner conversations, adding, I heard the captain say something yesterday, as I walking to
the Pyrope Parlor. I was just coming up on a corner and he was around the other side, talking to a couple
people, and they must not have known I was there. He said something about a wreck going well. And listen, when
they came round the corner, Ray was with the captain.

The next time the captain stopped by our group, Tiffany tagging along (pretending that she, too, was a
social butterfly who could mingle equally well with everyone), we were ready.

Is there a doctor on board? asked Adrienne. I've been having headaches. It was a lie, but we needed
information.

Jefferson nodded. Down past the Emerald Lounge, second door on the left. All hours. A robot, then. Medical
AI were even more expensive than the barkeep. I wondered how many people it treated. Had anyone on the ship
ever fallen seriously ill?

Does he age? asked Adrienne.

The captain? I shrugged. I never thought about it.

Adrienne steepled her fingers and studied my face. That doesn't answer my question, she said.

Adrienne only picked at her food. 

Not hungry? asked Kishori sympathetically.

No, said Adrienne.

At least have a drink, said Sarah. I find it takes the edge off.

She doesn't drink, remember? said Kishori.

Maybe that's the problem, said Sarah.

One hundred and forty-seven is a magic number, said Sarah. You ever heard of Dunbar? Well, we've got the
perfect-size group right here. Just enough for us all to recognize each other. Just enough for us all to be
able to barely avoid killing each other.

Why doesn't anyone mutiny? Adrienne asked. If you dislike this place so much, why don't you do something
about it?

We can't, said Ray. What would we do?

Adrienne shook her head and made a sound of disgust. You could force the captain to set down somewhere. Let
us off the ship. If he refuses, threaten him. If he still refuses, well, of all of us, isn't there
someone who can drive a ship?

That's murder, objected Sarah.

That's survival,  Adrienne corrected her. Do you want to be stuck here for the rest of your
life?

Sarah didn't reply.

I shifted my feet in the plush green carpeting of the Emerald Lounge, looking out the windows at the stars.
Times like that, running on less sleep than I should, alone because everyone else had had the sense to retire
for the night, I had a tendency to get all meditative about the universe and my place in it. The stillness of
the room contributed, as did the view. Black and more black, speckled by tiny points of light that flared up to
break the emptiness, if only for a brief time. All of it was temporary, save for the black. That was tonight's
melodramatic theme: the ephemeral nature of life. Everything temporary. Everything to fade away, lost as dust
and scattered atoms between the stars, and every one of us to be left as alone as the moment we were born.

Thinking about that, I wondered if Sarah's theory was right after all. Some things in this world, we have to
make them permanent ourselves. And Jefferson, he had done that. He had made us a constant. He made this
shipthis lifea constant. The one thing that was known. The one thing that wouldn't change.

Maybe everything we did, all the stories we told, maybe it was all lies. Maybe we'd never know each other,
not truly, because we all hid behind the stories, creating the realities we wanted to see. But ultimately, this
ship, its purpose, our purposedid it matter? We each had our own theory. Maybe that was enough. And all of us,
we were permanent characters in each others' stories. Maybe that made us more real. Maybe it made us feel less
alone.

Mind if I join you?

I turned to see Adrienne in the doorway. She smiled, then crossed the room to join me by the window, not
waiting for an answer. 

Some nights, I said, I can't see the meaning in any of it. All these things I do, they're just to pass
the time until I die.

Adrienne looked at me, then back out through the window. You don't see a meaning because there is no
meaning, she said.

After all of it, as much as we feared being alone, we feared being vulnerable even more. Our instinct was to
hide.

Look what I found, Adrienne said. In her hands was a bottle.

And what happens to Adrienne?

I couldn't find her.

Jefferson was in the Captain's Lounge, 

Fact: Sound is a vibration. The speed of sound in dry air at twenty degrees Celsius or sixty-eight degrees
Fahrenheit is three hundred and forty-three meters per second, or one thousand one hundred twenty-five feet per
second.

Up his dosage, I heard the captain say. I've got a replacement lined up.

I ran.

I didn't want to forget.

I didn't want to be harvested.

The last thing I remember, I was tearing down the corridors. Life boats, I thought. Every ship had life
boats. In case of emergency, break glass. I'd find one. I'd put on a space suit, I'd get out of this ship, I'd
find civilization again. A planet. A space station. Some other ship. Any place but this place.

Failing all else, I'd suffocate. Alone.

Ray, he caught me as I pounded on the corridor walls, finding no glass to break. Relax, he told me,
sliding a needle into my arm. It'll pass, he told me. He held me in his arms until I stopped flailing.

It passed.

This is my Hotel California.

I can never leave.


Tara stood stock-still, waiting for the first tiny gleam from the scout craft to
appear in the darkness of the wormhole. The gentle constant breeze of recycled
air from the vent above blew an annoying hair against her nose, but she ignored
it.

A gasp from the psychic broke her silent vigil, and she turned.

"Results, Harmon?" she suppressed the surge of annoyance that ran through her as
she contemplated the psi's gift of getting all the hot news first.

Harmon's face slowly animated - joy sweeping in to replace stern concentration.
"Tarrin says the planet's a freaking gemstone! Thriving with life, large and
small forms, no buildings of any kind, hydrocarbons, metals, and a stable
atmosphere. He's not even bringing them back through for a face to face
briefing. He says we should come through now, immediately, before the probe is
reported late."

"Harmon, tell that good for nothing son of a beta to get his hindquarters
through the gate and back here NOW, or I'll open fire on him when we come back
through." Tara fumed. Of all the impertinence! Tarrin, no doubt with orders from
Mason, was questioning her command decisions. That's what I get for not using
mercenaries.

She returned to her watch, regarding her own reflection in the long window.
Mahogany-black curly hair, cut short in the typical military style framed a
careworn, dark-skinned face. It was not an attractive face right now; her ebony
eyes shadowed by hours on the watch, full lips pursed with frustration. She had
the look of every leader she had ever known. At six foot two, she stood a full
head taller than even her Arrallin first officer. Her glowering expression
completed the imposing effect. She picked imaginary flecks off her stark gray
jumpsuit, and snorted. You look like hell, Tar. Don't blow this. Don't let
fatigue get to you.

She used the discretion of the mirrored window to secretively survey her crew.
Harmon was an excellent addition to the bridge team, but was she open minded
enough to defy United Earth Command and sever all ties from Earth? She watched
the psi bob her head, unaware of the rest of the bridge, shaking blonde curls as
she chattered away with the approaching psi relay on Mason's ship. She seemed so
depthless - self conscious and shallow on the outside, but having that
incredible gift. There had to be more to her.

Well, if she didn't pan out, she'd be terminated. Any crew member that would
jeopardize the project was meat. It would be a shame to lose that talent,
though.

Rakal, her first officer, was staring pensively at his panel. He was what this
was all about. She watched his graceful fingers ending in thick black claws tap
out calculations on the panel. His pointed ears swiveled back and forth,
catching every sound from the bridge, while his long tail swished to the rhythm
of his thoughts. Only those of the Arrallin Insurrection inner team knew he was
no common 'beta furry'. His silken fur, which would be tawny golden and striped
with jet black bands, was dyed perfectly to a pure black, and his mane trimmed
and thinned as to be indistinguishable from the rest of his coat. His eyes had
been treated and darkened to a rich purple to disguise the brilliant golden
yellow color that would mark him as an Alpha Arrallin, and leader of his hive.
Right now, he looked like an overgrown wolf who'd learned touch-typing.

The scout ship re-emerged from the hole - a brilliant speck emerging from a
sphere of velvety blackness. It's hail crackled across the comm, and Tara spun
to retake her seat at the helm. "Launch the second probe. Won't Central be
crushed to learn that another gateway has yielded little more than a class F
planet and a white dwarf system. Level 1 and 2 staffers should prepare to be
briefed and move out. This sounds like it's the one." The distinctive whuffle of
pleasure rippled through the betas on the bridge, and Rakal let loose a small
growl, as if to caution his charges against false hope. They'd scouted
twenty-seven gates so far, and none had turned up anything worth the
Insurrection's time. Tara would not let giddy hopes drag them onto a rock that
would spell the end for the project, and the Arrallin species.

   
      
         
            Foster A. Ranney
            Nathans Bylichka
            
            Dedicated to Neil Gaiman, Radiohead and Black Sabbath
            
            Strange things have always happened to my family. It came in through my mother's blood; my Russian grandmother would always tell me stories, bylichkas, of ancestors with the "second sight", stupid mill owners who discovered bags of gold after letting a special fish off their hooks, and dark strangers who used to appear to help or interfere at crucial times. When I asked her if she'd ever seen them  before I was old enough to stop believing, I mean  she would always look sad and tell me, "No, not since the family came to America has anything happened to us. But if you ever should see a faerie, tell him that you are of the blood of Ivan Bogatyrivitch and he will not pass you by so quickly." As I got older, I shook the tales off with a nod and a "Yes, Nana."
            I got older and went to school, then to college, and I replaced the dreams my Nana gave me with the music DJs mixed for crowds in clubs, webs of pulse that shook us until we could believe anything. My girlfriend Rachel and I would go to the clubs near our school. Sometimes we'd get word that people were gathering under one of the bridges, and we'd rush down to hit it before the cops broke it up. Boston is a strange place at night. You wouldn't believe half of the shit I've seen, even when I was straight.
            It was a Friday night. Rachel and I went out to dinner, and when we finished, she saw that there was a message on her cell phone. She checked it there in the restaurant. Her head tilted into the phone as she listened, her pleather purse on her lap, shining jet against the worn black of her snug Dead Can Dance T-shirt. Its from Mitch, she said, folding up the phone. He says we should meet him tonight, theres a good one going on in that church that closed down last month.
            I dont know  it was going to be just us tonight. Im not sure Im up for a night out. I was feeling calm and private that night. It seemed like tonights darkness was small and personal, cupped hands offering a place for two, not the burning, open darkness of a rave.
            Baby, lets go. Its been over a week, and I want to dance. Lets go together, you know youll have fun once you get into it. She bit the inside of her bottom lip, looking at me like I was breaking her poor, sweet heart. Im a sucker for that, and she knows it.
            Okay, Rachel. Lets go, youre probably right.
            She grinned and gave me a kiss across the table, her lips soft and firm and sticking just enough that she gave the feeling you were really kissing, not just pressing your face into someone elses. 
            Lets not get fucked up tonight, though, okay, Rache? We dont  
            Sure, babe. Come on, I dont have to get fucked up every time we go out just to enjoy myself. Lets not waste any more time. She stood up and I followed her out to the street. It was dark enough that I could actually see a few stars through the screen of city light. Without hearing the car horns, I could almost taste the air of late March through the street fumes. If it was March, that meant that wed been together almost a year and a half. It was last February, after the winter break, that we moved in together. Now spring was back, under the concrete, and I could smell it even here.
            Isnt it an amazing night, Rache? Even the city feels alive when spring comes.
            Taxi! She waved down a car and pulled me in. In a few minutes, we were getting out a block down from the abandoned church. After she paid the driver, she grabbed my arm, laughing, and we ran down the street. I heard the pulse already. We slammed against the doorway and I was laughing too, the pulse close enough to shake the doorframe and set up vibrations in my chest, Rachel in my arms because shed used me to soften her landing. We kissed and slipped inside.
            The old vaulted church was stripped down: there was no cloth on the altar, just a DJs toolkit and his beer. Through the dark, I could see three bolts left in the wall from where theyd taken down the crucifix. A confessional too beaten-up to have been sold was shaking in a way that suggested activity inside, and where the pews had been taken out, a couple hundred people were testifying to the DJs moving sermon.
            Rachel stepped forward into the crowd while I took a moment to drink in the ceilings blue-lit, shadowed vault and the light-catching haze from who-knows-what rising between the DJ and the crowd. There was a terrific echo, each beat reverberating inside of the next, and the old stained-glass windows rattled in their frames. On the dance floor, people moved with their eyes closed and their hands in the air.
            I danced with Rachel for a while, but then something by the bar seemed to be pulling her eyes. She told me that she was heading for a drink and slipped out of the crowd. 
            When she hadnt come back halfway through the next song, I glanced over at the bar. It was just a little set-up where someone had stacked a few crates and brought something alcoholic to share, mostly beer. Rachel was standing with a plastic cup, looking like she was having a conversation, but I couldnt see anyone else there. The next time the crowd split, I saw him. He stood in front of a blue light, so I couldnt see him clearly, but what I saw was memorable. He wore a jacket of what might have been blue velvet, and his hair gleamed black against his white skin. The blue haze seemed to stop just shy of his pallor, setting off his striking face without illuminating its details, and his wrists flashed white in the darkness. He didnt move, just stared and held his drink. 
            The next time I saw them, his mouth was moving. She nodded and he took her arm. I watched them through the crush of dancers as they squeezed along the wall, and the feeling came to me that something was very wrong.
            Saturday morning, I woke up and saw that she still hadnt come home. I called Mitch and our other friends, hoping that shed crashed at one of their houses, but I had no luck. A couple of them remembered seeing her leave, but none of them had seen the thin man with her. I didnt know how they could miss such exotic features, even in that distorting light.
            I caught a taxi back to the church. It was still a mess, but everything bigger than a soda can had disappeared. I walked across what had been the dance floor. The church was completely different now: sunlight fell through the stained glass, catching dust that still hung in the air and sending a dry, healthy warmth into the edges of the room, through the stone and the powdery concrete that had been covered last night by flesh and flashing lights. I realized that Rachel had disappeared without leaving a clue and I had no way to do anything but wait for her to show up  which, if she were in a situation where I should be doing something, would probably be never.
            Standing in the center of the church, I took out my cell phone and called the police. I need to file a missing persons report. Rachel Frieze. Last night, walking on West 2nd street around  maybe eleven or twelve oclock. What? But, sir, this is an unusual situation. She didnt come home last night, none of her friends have seen her. Sir, if shes in any danger, it will probably be too late to help her by that time. My girlfriend has disappeared, I dont even know where to start looking, and I need help! Yes, sir. I understand. The police wouldnt file a report for someone whod been missing overnight. I closed the phone. 
            Walking out of the church, a little gust of cold air caught me by surprise. A cold front must have hit while I was inside. Glancing down the street, I realized that I didnt have a friend to drive me home this time, and it was a long walk back to the streets where taxis ran. I pulled my T-shirts sleeves down my arms as far as theyd go, but I wasnt ready for cold. 
            Walking didnt build up much heat; it just moved the air enough to chill me more. After Id walked about a block, a car rolled up behind me. It slowed down as it neared me and I started to worry. This wasnt the best of neighborhoods. I kept my eyes straight ahead and tried to walk more quickly without showing it. 
            I heard an automatic window roll down. Hey, said a male voice, do you need some help?
            I turned around. The man looked over forty, and he was driving a car Id be afraid to drive on this street. Its a long way to anywhere worth going, he said. Would you like some help?
            Ah, I think Im fine, thanks, I told him, and turned back to the sidewalk.
            Really, Id like to help. Please, hop in. You dont look dressed for this weather.
            I glanced back over my shoulder. No thanks, sir! Im just fine. Really, dont worry about me.
            Nathan Spencer, I offer you help. I advise that you not refuse me a third time.
            I stopped and looked back at him, surprised. He met my eyes coolly. How do you know my name?
            I know your family. Get in. We have a lot of work ahead of us, and its best to start now.
            I walked around the car and got into the passenger seat. Before I had my belt on, we were rolling forward. Okay, I said. Im in the car. Now, will you tell me how you know my family, and how you happened to be driving by just now? In fact, why didnt you call me by name the first time? And how did you recognize me when  
            Thats enough! I can only answer one question at a time. I know your family because an ancestor of mine made a bargain with an ancestor of yours. I am here now because you called for help, and no-one else would answer. He turned onto the next street and shifted up. I will help you find your Rachel. I have to warn you, though, you wont like what I have to tell you.
            I shivered. Something in his tone couldnt be disbelieved. Tell me anyway. If shes in trouble, I want to find her, wherever she is.
            My driver took a deep breath. As he did, his neck stretched in a strange way and I noticed several thin lines, like wrinkles, running across the sides of his neck. Nathan, he began in the way that people speak when they start a long and difficult explanation, Rachel met someone last night whom it is best never to meet. This person, like me, is not a member of traditional society. You see, Nathan, there is separate from your society oh, damn it. Ive never had to give this conversation before. Come on, I have something to show you. With that, he made a sharp turn onto a side street that I hadnt noticed before. We drove between slummy housing and storefronts so decayed that I couldnt tell whether they were abandoned. My driver turned again next to an old warehouse that I might have been in once when Mitch took us to a rave in sophomore year. 
            In front of a few houses, there were cars parked, but there were almost none on the streets. Their bumpers looked ready to drop off, and their paint was half smog. I got a strange feeling that we werent supposed to be driving here. Hey, I said, are you sure that we should be going this way? I mean   
            Just ignore that, he told me. Youll be used to the sensation in a moment. That just unnerved me more. As we kept driving, the anxiety grew more pronounced. I noticed that there were some people on the street, people the same color as the soiled buildings. Someone standing just in the lip of an alley glared at me with gleaming eyes. Okay, this is the spot, said my driver, pulling over. He parked and got out. 
            Is it really safe to leave the car  he was already walking toward the squat, brick-windowed building we were parked next to. Glancing back at that gleaming glare, I decided that it might be safer to follow the driver than to wait with the car. I hopped out, ran after him, and reached him just as he was knocking on the door. Someone opened it a crack, then ushered us in.
            Inside, the building opened up. The ceiling was high and wooden, and I could see part of a DJs booth down the hall. It looked like we were in the back of a nightclub. Then I looked down and saw what had let us in. Nepthys, my man! What up? The hunchbacked being who let us in held out a scraggly paw for him to slap. Nice, my man, he said as they clasped hands. Whos the freak?
            This is someone from Ivans family. Did I ever tell you about them?
            Yeah, one time, man, but you were pretty fucked up. Whats your problem, kid?
            The hunchbacked man came up to my stomach. His skin was brown and stretched, like some diseased saplings bark. It pulled back around his fingertips, which bore things that might have been nails or claws. When he grinned, I saw that his teeth were sharp and small, like a hunting cats. Under matted hair, his eyes had slit pupils.
            Nepthys quickly answered for me. Girlfriend troubles. She came down here with someone after a party, and I dont think it was one of your average pixies.
            Bummer. So, whats the cat look like?
            He turned to me. Nepthys nodded: Its okay, you can trust him. Thats why we came here.
            It was easier to talk than to question. I I noticed him from across the room when I was looking around for Rachel. He was standing right in front of some blue lights, so I couldnt see him very well, but I noticed the way that the light set off his pale skin. It almost looked like the light bent around him without actually touching him directly. He was slim, almost drawn, but he had a kind of  luster to him, I guess. He wasnt a person youd describe with normal adjectives, you know?
            They nodded. Oh, totally, said the hunchback. I get that all the time around here.
            He was wearing a sort of jacket maybe blue velvet, I couldnt tell in the dark, but it had ruffles at the throat, things like that. He really stood out. Thats why I couldnt understand why no-one else remembered him. He had some rings, too. I remember that he hardly ever moved, just stared at Rachel. Even when he talked, he hardly opened his mouth. I dont know how he couldve been heard over the music.
            The two glanced at each other. What do you think? asked the hunchback.
            Ive looked into it a little, and I do think we might be dealing with one of them. Have you seen anyone like that in your club?
            Not that I can remember, man. I can send you to a guy who knows all about them, though. If this cats for real, I bet my friend can tell you everything you need to know.
            Youre a wonder, Dvorov. We should head straight over. It wont be long before nightfall.
            Oh yeah, man. Here, let me write down how to find him. The hunchback pulled out a scrap of paper and scribbled something on it with his fingernail, then handed it to Nepthys. Here you go, man. Good luck!
            Thanks, Dvorov. I owe you one. Lets go. That last one was to me. I waved goodbye to the hunchback as we left. He gave me a half-hearted wave that made me wonder what exactly we were chasing, and whether I should be wearing body armor. 
            Back on the street, I began to see things that I had never looked for until then. Still in my initial shock, I suddenly noticed qualities of the people that my mind hadnt registered when we parked. I saw people with skin stretched so tightly across their cheekbones that the corners had broken through  people whose cheekbones had horns growing from them, and people whose skin was gathered back like a ponytail. The yellow of this sky wasnt just smog: it had a leeching, heavy dimness. I saw men three feet tall with dusty black skin and eyes that shed yellow light. A corpulent, batrachian woman walked along with something on a leash that looked like a massive water beetle. Leaning from the rough-hewn window of one building on our right was something with long, green hair draped across the seven gangly arms hanging from its windowsill. Thirty-five thin fingers waved lazily like seaweed. I noticed when my back hit the wall that I was walking backwards.
            We, and thousands like us, have been living separately as long as there has been a human society, said my driver. I noticed that the wrinkles on his neck expanded as he breathed and realized that they were gills. We interact with humans, take advantage of them, grant them boons, sometimes even become their friends, but the majority of both societies have little or no interaction. At this point, we have removed ourselves so fully from quotidian human existence that we are understood to be fictional.
            The only place with any significant interaction between our worlds is on the fringes of yours. Love-ins, raves, gatherings where society is put on hold and humans open themselves to emotion: that is where entities from this world tend to go when they cross over, and that is where Rachel met someone from this world. Those of us who live permanently in this world tend to set up in places like this, where the human population is so overwhelming that they wont be noticed in the right corner, with the right protective spells.
            He took out the hunchbacks directions and glanced at an alley behind us. Okay, Nathan. We should get started right away. Theres no time to waste. 
            He saw that I wasnt moving. Setting an arm on my shoulder, he said, Nathan, what you see here might be frightening, but those things you saw are people just like you. Theyll be as surprised to see a human as you are to see men with seven arms.
            Thanks. Its very reassuring that Ill not only be an outsider but a curiosity.
            Nathan, you told me five minutes ago that you would do anything to help Rachel. Well, shes here and she needs your help. Now, the more we can do before nightfall, the better.
            But why are you even helping me? Until thirty seconds ago, I didnt believe in magic or any of that kind of weirdness. 
            Nathan, I told you: my family owes yours a debt. In this world, ones word is a promise. Now, can we get going?
            I caught my breath and forced myself to look him in the eye. Only if you stop beginning every sentence with my name.
            Youve got a deal. Lets go.
            As we headed down the sidewalk, I said, What is your name, anyway?
            Thats a question you learn not to ask here. What you may call me is Nepthys.
            Holding Dvorovs directions, Nepthys took us around the corner of the building into a skinny alleyway. I started wondering again how reliable my guides credentials were. Walking through an alley with rubbish piles that occasionally skittered from one wall to the other, he did not inspire confidence.
            Just at this corner, he said, interrupting my immanent panic attack, were going to stop and turn three times widdersh  er, counterclockwise, then face east. East is that way. He pointed at the wall to our right. Dont let the sun fool you. Then Im going to shed a little blood, but dont worry, none of yours. I blinked at him, but he just kept walking until we reached the corner. Okay, you might feel silly, but just turn three times to your left. Try to keep in time with me. We spun around three times, and then something flashed across Nepthys hand and he shook a spray of blood onto the dust. The blood flashed into flames as soon as it hit the ground, and I jumped back. When it had all burnt, a thin outline of a doorframe appeared on the wall across from our corner. Nepthys walked towards it and pressed his bloody palm against it, opening the door. Are you coming?
            We slipped through the door and came out, not inside the building, but on a busy street in a completely different part of town. The sky, cupping over squat buildings, was less yellow here, and stands were set up everywhere the way Id picture a market in the Middle East. Nepthys took us immediately to the right, where he led us to a cart filled with herbs. Spiced air hanging around the cart carried tarragon, rosemary, and scents I couldnt place. The thing tending the cart reminded me of the caterpillar from Alice in Wonderland: it had the same opium-dream wise man quality Id always given the caterpillar. Its arms were thin and long enough to reach any herbs from its cushion in the center of the cart, and with its long, many-shouldered pole of a torso, it rose over our heads even while seated. Its face was small and wrinkled, with penny-sized smoked glasses balanced on its thin nose. Would the gentlemen care to purchase some fine herbs? it asked. There are no finer to spice a meal, nor purer to mix a potion. Please, let yourselves breathe the fine scent of these herbs.
            Were not here to browse, Nepthys told him. Wed like to see a man about some garlic.
            The thing frowned. We have many fine cloves of garlic here on the cart, gentle sir. If  
            You know what I mean. Please, if we could see him, we would be much obliged. I imagine that people do not come here for unimportant reasons.
            It hissed thoughtfully. True, true. Step behind the cart and enter through the door there, using your left hand to open the door and your right   he looked at me   to close it.
            Thank you. Nepthys bowed slightly and we walked behind the cart.
            The latch opened under Nepthys left hand with a clack! The door took us to the bottom of a flight of wooden stairs. At the top was one door. We entered.
            The room held a bed, a bookcase, and a desk with one chair. Its only light came from a dying candle on the desk whose spark etched shadows in the roughly planked walls. On the bed was a small, ratty man. I smelled matted hair and cedar chips. He opened one eye when we came in but did not move.
            Were here for information about a vampire, said Nepthys.
            Oh, shit! I said.
            Sorry, kid. Would you do us the kindness of helping us to identify an individual?
            Wait, Nepthys  you said nothing about vampires. Frankly, I dont know if we can even doing anything against a vampire. Theres an entire industry in my world based around how unkillable they are. Are look, are they as bad as people in my world think they are?
            I dont know. Theyre almost as rare here, and Ive never heard a reliable story of someone successfully fighting a vampire.
            Only unsuccessfully, right?
            No, those people dont usually leave stories.
            Oh, thanks, Nepthys, for your confidence-inspiring tales of experience. So theyre probably worse than we think, okay, thats great. Now can you tell me what your master plan of attack will be before we go spinning counterclockwise into an Anne Rice novel?
            My plan is that you shut up while were trying to conduct business with someone who might be able to tell us what were actually going up against. Okay? Dont forget, shes your girlfriend. Now calm down while I talk to this gentleman. I can hear your heartbeat from over here.
            I shut up and tried to breathe. Nepthys turned back to the little man on the bed, who had not moved. Please, accept our apologies. As you can see, our situation is of personal importance to the young man. Now: may we ask you a few questions about an individual we believe to be a vampire? It would be a great help to us.
            The little man drew a few loud breaths that died in the wooden rooms tight air. Finally, in a pinched rasp, he said, My information is purely for the purposes of a collector. I do not want to provide help to someone who would do harm.
            Sir, we simply want to discover whether this individual is, in fact, a vampire. If there is any boon that you would have us do in return, we would be glad to do it.
            He continued to lie in place, still breathing heavily. I tried to keep myself calm. Then, with a sigh, he said, I have need of a certain stone that I once possessed. It would allow me to leave this bed, despite my current illness. My problem is that it was not made in this realm, but by a human, and only a human may handle it. The herb vendor will tell you where you can find it. If you would fetch me this stone, I would tell you what I can.
            Of course we will fetch you the stone, Nepthys assured him. You have our thanks.
            Outside, the thing at the herb cart nodded when we mentioned the stone. He told Nepthys the name of a woman who lived on a certain street, and we set off.
            When we reached the street, I expected some sort of temple, or a row of antiquaries, or at least a sleazy, black-market relics merchant. Instead, it looked like we were in the red-light district: women who probably wanted more than our money eyed us from the alleys. Nepthys didnt need to warn me not to speak to them. He took us to the door of a building like a short pagoda that had a sign hanging over it showing a face with hands uplifted, like a saint under G ds light, and handcuffed. 
            Inside, the entrance room was hung with bright silks and scattered with velvet cushions. Sails of obscene orange and a green that insulted springtime hung draped across reds that might have been sensual elsewhere but here were only offensive. A large woman, similarly decorated, quickly drifted up to us.
            Good evening, gentlemen, she said. May I invite you to have a cup of tea?
            No, thank you, said Nepthys, we regret that we cannot take up your kind offer. Are you the proprietor of this shop?
            Yes, answered the woman. I am Madame Entera, at your service. How can I help you gentlemen?
            We are here to see about a certain stone.
            She raised an eyebrow. Are you? Well, we dont get many customers asking about that item. Please, walk this way.
            She led us past the silks and through an arch decorated with pictures of wooden ships and what looked like African tribesmen. The next room had mosaics of what could have been Rome, with men in simple tunics working in a vineyard on one wall and men in odd, floppy hats on the other. After this, we went up a flight of stairs and past a row of doors barred on the outside.
            Excuse me, I said, ignoring Nepthys warning look, but may I ask what is kept in these rooms?
            The woman laughed. Why, the merchandise, of course, she said. 
            Nepthys leaned close to my ear. This is a slave shop, he explained quietly.
            The woman paused before another door, this one not barred but locked. As she brought out the key, she said, We deal mostly in fairly mundane trades, but there are a few customers with more unusual needs and people willing to sell unusual items. Weve had genies, indentured sorcerers, even golems and the occasional elf. This is one of the stranger items, though. Its been in our collection for several years because only a human can activate it. If we only had a human on our staff, we could have done so ages ago and sold it off, but we have no such luck. She opened the door and took us past several doors marked with odd geometrical designs to another locked room. Here it is, she said.
            With a flourish, she opened the door to reveal a room with walls inlaid with lapis and gold wire, intricate patterns like a Czars jewelry box crawling down the walls. In its center, under a spearing, white light, was a golden table draped with a blue velvet cloth, on which lay a gray, plum-sized rock.
            A marvel, isnt it? she said. That such a rock could hold so much magic  its a wonder.
            That it is, Nepthys assured her. What would convince you to part with it?
            She considered this, looking him over. You wouldnt give me the human, would you? No, she said, seeing his expression, that would make the stone rather useless. Nevertheless, she gave me what I can only describe as an appraising glance. I have never felt so appraised in all my life. He looks healthy, she said, how about a pint of his blood?
            A pint? Madame, I have his health to consider.
            Half a pint, then  and his hair.
            Nepthys turned to me. Well, kid, what do you think? Remember, this is your quest. Im not giving my blood.
            As if I wanted it, interrupted the woman. 
            I think its a fair deal, considering the return, he told me, but its up to you.
            I thought about it, then nodded.
            Marvelous! cried the woman. One half-pint of human blood, willingly given, and his fine head of hair for the stone. 
            She took us downstairs to a small room behind a red silk draping. There was a wooden chair, where she sat me down and asked me to wait. Soon, she came back with a lidded ceramic bowl, which she put on the table beside me. Roll up your sleeves, she told me. She opened the bowl and carefully, gingerly brought out a fat, dripping leech. It must have been larger than my finger. She laid it gently inside the hollow of my left arm. The cold thing stretched and cast around with its sucker-mouth until it found the soft spot inside my elbow, where it softly sucked on and began to work its way under my skin. I thought that I could feel a slight itching.
            They take about a quarter-pint each, said Madame Entera, drawing out another skinny leech. Theyre quick, too. Well be done with them before your hair is finished. Then she clapped her hands and brought in the barber.
            Half an hour later, I left the room pale and bald, running my fingers over my scalp. At least the barber hadnt nicked me. Madame Entera took me back up to the stones room, where Nepthys was waiting by the door. Be careful you dont let him touch it until youre ready to use it, the woman admonished Nepthys as she slipped the stone into a grey cloth pouch and handed it to him. Thank you for doing business at our house, and I hope to see you again!
            I left not a little unnerved, and still woozy from the leeches. Come on, said Nepthys, you could use a drink.
            We hit a bar on the next street over. Vodka, straight up, Nepthys told the bartender as we sat down at the counter, and a Bloody Mary for my friend. Make it extra bloody. When our drinks came, he poured a dollop of something from an inner pocket into my Bloody Mary. That should help, he said. You could run on empty with a little of that stuff. It wont refill your blood supply, but while thats in your system, you wont even need blood. He grinned at me. Drink up, kid.
            I took about half of the Bloody Mary in one gulp and then ate the celery. Nepthys slapped me on the back. Okay, I said, now that were sitting down, can you explain a little more of whats going on here? I mean, what is this place, really?
            He thought about that. I think that our world is a reflection of yours, or yours is a more boring reflection of ours. This place is just a little of both. In America, things are still weird after the European conquest. The natives are still here, but so is everyone else. The Europeans mostly manifest as something like the underground society of your cities. We arent quite what youd expect from reading the Grimms.
            What do you mean?
            Okay, take elves. He caught the bartenders eye for another shot. You figure theyre some Lincoln-green pretty boys who run around in the forest with bows and live forever in halls of glory, right? Not in America. Here, theyre the snotty rich who show up in clubs because they like the gritty ambience  you have them in your world, too, right? Except its worse here because they have centuries to grow disaffected and flirt with exciting and dangerous elements of societys lowest rungs. Some of them actually commit to this society, though. Theres an amazing DJ whos an elf. He has a real ear for it. When they do decide to do something for real, theyre always the best at it. He downed the second shot. I am glad to be out of the favor-trading scene for half a minute. Its exhausting to talk to those people. One wrong word and you find yourself cursed with infinite earwax or something. So what else do you want to know, Nathan?
            I dont know hey, what about the nature spirits, things like that? I mean, where do the dryads fit in a place like this?
            If the tree isnt around, the dryad isnt around. Its as simple as that.
            That made me a little sad. They were always my favorite part of the Greek myths I read in elementary school. Well, what about you? How did you get to America?
            My parents came over from Russia, just like your family. My real name is a little more ethnically appropriate, but we dont toss those around in this place. They were spirits of a certain branch of the Volga and the village based around a mill on that tributary. When the Russian government dammed the river, my parents decided that instead of dying with the river, they would stick with the people of the village theyd protected. I was born here, and I was lucky enough not to get attached to any particular river. Sure, I miss having a place to settle down, but its better than waiting to get dammed. He took another shot of vodka.
            Shouldnt you be going light on the vodka? I mean, we might have a lot of work ahead of us.
            Are you kidding? I can drink like a fish, kid. We should get going, though. Still woozy? I nodded. A little walking should get the stuff into your system. Come on, lets go.
            As we left the bar, I asked to see the rock. Why? Nepthys asked.
            Im just curious. I want to see what a magic stone looks like. Dont worry, Ill be careful not to touch it.
            He thought about it, then handed me the pouch. I undid the strings and let the pouch sit on my palm so that I could see the stone inside. It looked like a normal river stone, a gray oval with a white stripe through it. As long as I looked at it, it didnt reveal any magic sparkle or glow. 
            Suddenly, what looked like a little kid darted out of an alley and almost ran into me. I almost tripped over him, and the stone went flying out of the pouch. Nepthys tried to grab it, but, by reflex, I caught it first. 
            Immediately, I felt it grow warm and knew that I had done something very stupid. Nathan, said Nepthys, I think that you just did something very stupid.
            I agree, I told him. The stone was as warm as human flesh now, and there was a sort of glow that might have been light or just the stones soft heat, I dont know. Then there was light, a kind of rosy glow, and I felt the stone slip out of my hand to float in the air. The air around me seemed to still sound, and light came in around the corners of my eyes. Do you know what this thing does? I shouted, hardly able to hear myself.
            Nepthys was saying something that looked like, I have no idea! but I couldnt hear him. The light in the corners of my eyes rushed in, converging on the rosy glow around the stone, and for a moment I was blind. Then I opened my eyes again and saw a girl lying in the street. There was no sign of the stone.
            I think I understand why we got that stone from a slave shop, said Nepthys. The girl was as soft and rosy as the stones glow, and she was dressed in a white shift tied at the waist with a belt like a Celtic knot. Her arms and legs were wrapped in white linen up to her wrists and ankles, and soft, white leather boots held her feet.
            When she didnt move, I knelt down and put a hand to her brow. As soon as I touched her, her eyes opened into mine and she grabbed my wrist. I couldnt move.
            Name me, she said.
            I opened my mouth to ask for an explanation, but Nepthys stopped me. Dont name her What did you say?, okay? The next thing that comes out of your mouth is probably what shell respond to until we figure out how to put her back.
            I was at a loss. Id never named anyone before. I thought back to one time when Id been thinking about raising a family and remembered that Id always liked the name  
            Amy.
            Nepthys looked at me incredulously. You awaken a magical being of unknown power from an enchanted stone, having purchased her with your own blood from a slave dealer, and you name her Amy? Amy smiled at me and let go of my arm, but not before she brought my fingers to her lips and gave them one soft kiss.
            I stood up and Amy stood with me. So back to our garlicky friend?
            I suppose so, said Nepthys, and youd better pray to whatever god you think will listen that he wont care we woke her up.
            We walked back to the herb stand. The vendor stared a little at Amy, his arms pausing in midair as he lit the stands little lamp, but we walked right around him and up the wooden stairs.
            When Nepthys opened the little mans door, he rolled over and grinned to see us, but when Amy walked in, he blanched. What! he screamed. You idiots! You woke it up? Get out of my sight this instant!
            But but sir, I said, are you sure shes no help to you?
            Not if you named it already, you ninny, and Im sure that you have! Fools! Get out of my sight now  unless you know how to put it back? I thought as much. Now leave, before I call the rats on you.
            We left. Nepthys shook his hands at me like he wanted to wrap them around my neck. You idiot, he hissed, do you know how much youve set us back? I should say, set yourself back, since its your girlfriend were looking for. I thought about Rachel; in the excitement, I had forgotten why we were chasing down vampire experts. Youre just lucky that Dvorov isnt my only contact. Come on, were heading out. He held the door for me and Amy when we reached the bottom of the stairs. Walking outside, I was shocked to see that it was already dark. Night comes quickly here, said Nepthys quietly as he came out behind me. Didnt I warn you?
            Okay, he said as we hit the street, were going to see another friend of mine. First, though, we are getting you a hat. You look ridiculous with a shaved head. At a nearby stand, he grabbed the first hat that would cover my head and might pass back in real Boston. It was a black baseball cap that read Dead Can Dance in gold across the front. Amy liked it, I think. She still hadnt spoken since I named her, so I wasnt sure.
            He took us to a squat, long building whose roof bulged up like the ribs of a gutted animal. The black door opened as we came up to it, and a pale man opened the door. He was naked, but there was nothing to hide: his body was hairless and completely smooth. I only say he because he didnt have a hint of femininity. His eyes were white. From behind him, I could hear something that sounded like a remix of the Cures A Forest.
            Im here to see Isis. Tell her that Nepthys is here to see her.
            The man closed his eyes. A moment later, he opened them again and stepped aside to let us in. Nepthys walked straight past him and I tried to keep up, taking Amys small hand so that she wouldnt lag behind. I shivered as I walked past the pale mans blank eyes, wondering what they were staring at. Amy gave my hand a squeeze.
            Nepthys lead us down a hallway that matched the buildings fa巽ade, a vaulted, ribbed intestine of a hallway, whose black walls looked unsettlingly organic. I thought that I saw one rib shift in its setting, like a cat trying to scratch its back against a wall, but when I turned, it was still.
            Then there was a door, which opened as we approached. Inside, the space opened into a wide, square chamber mirrored and so dark that it could have been any size. In the center was a dais covered with white furs and a young woman, surrounded by more pale men. These were incontestably male.
            Nepthys! said the woman, slithering up across the furs to sit up. As she rose, her robes fell open and I realized that, except for what looked like a red silk kimono, she was naked  naked and stunning. I had an urge to cover Amys eyes. Its been years since Ive seen you. Please, come and sit beside me, and introduce your friends.
            This man is here in search of his lover, who was stolen from him in the human world, said Nepthys, ushering us toward the woman in silk. The girl is surprising, he concluded.
            And I am Isis, said the woman, offering her hand to me. I took it and, dropping to one knee, gave her fingers a small kiss. It seemed appropriate. It is an honor to meet you, Lady Isis, I said.
            She laughed, liquid, alluring, alarming. Oh, precious! He has lovely manners, Nepthys, despite his poor taste in hats. You may leave out the Lady, boy. I dont wish to be reminded of how old I actually am. A wave to the pale men brought a bottle of red wine and a platter of grapes. Now, how can I help the elegantly mannered friend of my Nepthys and his surprising young charge? I hope I can start by offering some wine.
            Nepthys poured out wine for three of us. May I have a little more of what you gave me before, Nepthys? I asked. I still feel a little woozy. He poured a dollop of the clear liquid into one cup and passed it to me. The wines rich scent had a touch of something chemical that I recognized from the bar, but it filled my mouth and sank into my veins with reassuring warmth.
            Isis nostrils twitched slightly. Youve lost blood, boy? This story might be interesting. Does it have anything to do with why your head is shaved?
            It was part of the price for this girl, who was a rock at the time, explained Nepthys. 
            I have a feeling that she was worth the trade, I added. Amy, still holding my hand, smiled.
            She may be at that, said Isis, gazing at her. That sweet, small nose, and her soft lips  shed kiss well, I should think, if gently. She has good blood under her cheeks. Good, round breasts, too, even though theyre small, they suit her. Amy didnt blush, and I hoped that she didnt understand what Isis was saying.
            She would have been worth it, Nepthys interrupted, if this fool hadnt accidentally woken her up before we could give her to our contact. He was going to give us valuable information for her.
            Now I understand why youre here, said Isis. So what do you need to know?
            You know I wouldnt come to you if I could get this information another way, said Nepthys apologetically.
            Mmm, she replied. I couldnt tell what the thoughtful look on her face meant.
            I think that the person who stole the girl were looking for might be a vampire. Isis you know some way to locate the undead, dont you?
            I do. Describe this one to me. If I know him, I can find him. If not, youll have to bring me something to work with.
            Nepthys looked at me. I thought back to seeing the man in the hollow church and described his skin, his dark hair, the way that light seemed to flow around him, as best as I could. Isis set her elbows in the fur and rested her head on her hands while I spoke and tried not to stare at her full, hanging breasts. When I had told her all that I could remember, she blinked her black lashes and said, I remember him.
            You do? Nepthys could hardly believe her. Thats amazing!
            It is. I would have sworn to you that he was dead. He should be. I hope that you can do a better job than the last lot. She sat up, running her hands along her pale, round thighs. All right, then. Let me see if I can find him.
            Isis closed her eyes and lifted her hands. A dark glow coalesced around her palms. Amy leaned forward, looking amazed. The glow reflected on her pink face, casting a sickly pallor over her heartbeat-strong cheeks. Tiny drops of blood began to seep out of Isis palms as her brow creased. Her candy lips twisted into a frown. The dark glow grew stronger and larger, filling the air for about a foot around her hands. In her palms, the droplets of blood swelled into small pools. 
            The dark glow began to flicker, and Isis frown of concentration became one of worry. The pools in her hands grew deeper. She didnt shed a bead of sweat, and I didnt even see her draw a breath, but the glow around her hands shuddered like a stubborn candleflame. Then her fingers tensed and her arms began to shake. The blood in her palms, still filling up, began to ripple. Shivers swept through her body, and Nepthys reached out to touch her but I stopped him. He glanced at me with honest concern, probably the first honest moment hed shown me: Is she all right? I didnt know.
            Her hands twitched and a drop of blood shook out, splashing on the crease of her thigh and hanging to one strand of the black hair between her legs. She gasped and the dark glow went out, taking the blood with it in a flash of heat and red steam. Isis collapsed on the fur, strings cut. 
            Now Nepthys lunged forward, took her by the arms. Isis, what happened? Are you hurt?
            She shook her head, rubbing her face into the white fur and murmuring something. What did you say? asked Nepthys.
            She rolled onto her back, her arms crossed tightly over her chest. For the first time, she looked vulnerable. When she finally spoke, I had to lean close to hear her. I found your vampire, she said, but he might know that someones looking for him. Hes taken great pains to keep himself hidden. You should look for him at Dvorovs as quickly as you can. She turned to me with tired sympathy. I didnt see a girl with him. Hurry, though, and you might find him before he leaves. A twitch of her fingers summoned her pale servants. One of these will lead you out.
            I stood, and one of her servants took me and Amy to the door. I looked back to see Nepthys whispering something to her. He stood to go, but she caught his sleeve and pulled him back for a moment. I turned back to the door. Come on, Amy, I said, hell be along soon.
            Nepthys caught up with us after a minute and walked silently to the end of the hall. When we got there, another pale servant was waiting for us with a box of dark stained wood. He offered it to Nepthys, who opened the box: on velvet lining, a wooden hammer and two stakes. 
            Mountain ash, said Nepthys. That was very kind of her. Closing the box, he paused beside the open door and looked back at me. I really hope we find your Rachel, he said. It looked like he was going to continue, but then he walked out the door.
            I know a quick way to Dvorovs, said Nepthys. I bet hes kicking himself now for not having a way to contact me. In a few minutes, we were back to the first door wed knocked on in this town and Dvorov himself was greeting us. The pulse from inside made the building sound like a giant heart.
            Yo, my man Nep! You got the sucker already?
            No, but we got a tip that he might be in your club. Have you seen him?
            Here, man? Youre crazy. I havent had a vampire here since you and   Nepthys shot a wicked look at him. Anyway, long time, man.
            Thats odd. Do you mind if we check it out anyway? I have a real feeling that hes in here somewhere.
            Dvorov glanced over his shoulder, a little nervous. I guess, man, but be quick. I dont want my customers thinkin that anythings wrong, you know?
            Of course. Well be in and out in a minute. Nepthys stepped in and Dvorov walked us towards the dance floor.
            So did you get anything out of the guy I sent you to? Dvorov asked us.
            No, he said that his research was purely academic, not for hunters.
            Bummer. I guess I probably shouldve known, though. I mean, he is kinda tight about that stuff. He didnt look very surprised. Anyway, this is the dance floor, man. Good luck.
            Something with too many arms was manning the turntables above the crowd, which looked more impenetrable tonight than ever before. Then I saw the bar on the other side of the crowd and knew where to start looking.
            I tried to slip along the edge of the crowd. Things with scales and claws kept flailing against me, pressing me into the wall, but I took a breath and kept moving. My nose filled with a reek of thick sweat. The music began to build, and a strobe came on. Somewhere toward the center of the dance floor, I heard a howl that sent bitter winds under my clothing  for a second, I was back with my family in Russia, hiding from the cold. Then I felt a tug on the back of my shirt and noticed that Amy was following me. I gathered her under my arm. Dvorov was somewhere behind me, too, negotiating delicately through his patrons. 
            Just in front of me, a massive thing slammed into the wall, sending up a cloud of granite dust. It slumped to the floor and I realized that it was a werewolf. Its haunches twitched in time to the music. As it started to rise, a man with thick, scaled skin stretched across rippling muscles leapt on him. I thought that my odds were better on the dance floor.
            Holding Amy in my arms as we ducked between the crush of dancers, I started to wonder if the chances of finding this vampire were even good enough to merit this. I wasnt sure that I could survive the crush of the crowd. A cold thing with countless, writhing tentacles fell against me, thrashing as if in the throes of a drug overdose, tripping me and clutching at my limbs. A woman who could have been an elf twitched and jerked beside me, fingers trembling at the torn edges of her clothing. Then a looming shape to my right fell away, and I saw him in a flash of the strobe, his black eyes staring deadly into the crowd. The creature blocking my vision moved back, but I had seen all that I needed to see. 
            A bleeding, eyeless thing shuddered and beat its arms against me, but I ducked around it and toward the bar. I slipped past the waving monstrosity that had blocked my view before, a mountain of wet, veined flesh, and had almost passed through the crowd when a clawed hand grabbed my arm. 
            It was Dvorov. He pulled my ear down to his mouth. You seen enough, man? he shouted.
            Yes, I called back, I saw him! Hes sitting right there at the bar!
            Dvorov tried to peek through the crowd, but it had shifted again and we couldnt see a thing. I dont think hes there, Dvorov shouted to me. It must have been wishful thinking.
            No, I saw him! I have to hurry, too! Who knows how long hell stick around?
            Listen, man, hes not there! Im telling you, its not even worth checking the bar! I turned to keep going, but he caught my arm again. Dont do this, kid! Its a dumb idea. Even if you did find this vampire cat, hed tear you apart! If he got your girl, shes probably dead! I shook him off and squeezed between two dancing nymphs, getting almost to the edge of the dance floor.
            Suddenly, Amy screamed. I whirled around and threw up my arm just in time to knock Dvorov away. His eyes were glowing red, and he had bared a set of fangs that could probably take my hand off. The dancers near us tried to clear some space. He shot back up, hardly touching the ground, and I kicked him back. He jumped at my arm while I was still off-balance, and I felt the surge of adrenaline that comes right when your body realizes that its too late to save itself.
            A heavy thing hit my arm with a thump and knocked me back against someone with rough paws who held me up. On the floor was Dvorovs head, separated from his body by several feet and a growing puddle of dark blood. Nepthys stood over him with a blue sword in his hand. It flashed in the strobe where it wasnt streaked with Dvorovs blood.
            He wasnt the only one with a secret or two, he said by way of explanation. You spotted our boy, didnt you? I bet his hide-out is nearby, too. Lets hurry. He wiped off the sword and sheathed it in a scabbard now belted to his hip. The crowd parted for us.
            The vampire glanced up when he saw the crowd split and his eyes flashed when he noticed us. In a blink of the strobe light, he was on his feet and dashing from the room. Come on! shouted Nepthys.
            We chased after him, Amy keeping up valiantly behind us. He bashed up a set of stairs set into the side of the wall, and we chased up after him, heading up a huge staircase that seemed to go up for more stories than the building could have held. Luckily, the vampire turned off after three stories. He ran down a hallway and slipped behind one of the doors, but Nepthys was close behind him and left it open for me. I called out to Amy to shut the door in case the vampire had any friends who might be trying to follow us. Inside was a dark room that looked like a storage space for DJ equipment. Nepthys urged me on from the back of the room, then made a turn out of sight. 
            When I came to the door at the end of the room, it looked like it had been torn off its hinges. I didnt imagine that Nepthys had done it, and it wasnt without alarm that I ran after him. 
            A black hallway opened into a space like a cathedral. The vault rose into obscurity above me, and a massive rose window stood ahead of me. The panes looked dyed black, and only a few cold beams slipped through the filter. Footsteps echoed through the stone chamber, and the sound reflected back to me from everywhere. I couldnt tell how many people were running, much less where they were. On the steps in front of the altar, I saw pale forms and realized that they were Rachel and two other women. Then I heard Nepthys shout, Nathan! Behind you! I whirled and dropped in time to see the vampire shoot over my head, leaping like a panther. He smashed into the pews behind me and I heard him leap across the rest of the row. There was Nepthys, on the other side of the pews, holding the wooden box in his hand. He tossed it to me, and I just barely had it open before I saw the vampire again, turning to face me.
            I pulled out the hammer and one of the stakes. He leapt over the pews, soaring like a grasshopper, and drew a gleaming knife in midair. I dodged, but he tossed it, and I held the box in front of my face. The blade lodged in the wood, its silver point penetrating the velvet and nearly reaching my skin. My arms shook from the force of his throw. Then he landed heavy beside me and I scrambled to stand. His first move pulled out the dagger, almost wrenching my arms from their sockets as I held on to the box, and the second shattered the box with a crushing punch that sent me reeling backwards. I dropped the splinters and the broken second stake and raised my hammer, ready to drive the ash spike into his heart. Behind him, I saw Nepthys running between the pews. I braced my legs against the stone floor and he was on me. I raised the stake; he drew back the dagger for a slash that could doubtless open my neck from throat to spine. The stake went down, there was a blur, and then my hands were empty and I felt pain under my jaw.
            Two points of fire opened in my throat for an instant, then all went numb. Taste, hearing and touch became a single blur, and I do not know if my eyes were open. My mind began to dissipate, but then I felt the pain withdraw and a lifeless voice said, This ones blood isnt worth drinking. Hands closed on my neck and I felt my spine crack.
            I must have fallen to the floor then. I could perceive Nepthys sword flashing over me, and I heard steel crack, then bone. I thought I heard Rachels voice blearily calling for me. Then one set of footsteps began walking toward the altar.
            I was content to let myself drift away, and I had almost forgotten the body lying with broken neck on the cathedrals hard tiles when I felt a warm touch on its cheek. A girls voice, soft and almost recognizable, spoke, Nathan. I felt my head turn and something in my neck reconnected. Then my eyes opened and Amy handed me the hammer and stake.
            I stood and turned toward the altar. The vampire was walking just steps ahead of me. I stepped up behind him and raised my hands, which almost seemed to be glowing. Then the stake came down into his back and one, two, three strikes with the hammer drove it in. The vampire fell forward and blood began to flow from his mouth.
            Behind me, Amy was kneeling beside Nepthys, whose arm and rib cage were knitting back together like a wooden toy that falls apart when its string is released but draws itself together at a slight tug. I pulled the vial of liquid that hed been giving me from his pocket and ran to the altar.
            Rachel, her clothes torn and her face drawn, looked like she might cry when she saw me. I pulled her into my arms and she tried to put hers around me. My fuckin hero, she whispered. 
            
         
         
      
   

   
      
         
            
            
            The Black Willow
            
            Allan sat down at his desk and pulled the chair in close. Opening a side drawer, he took out a piece of paper and his inkpot. After filling his pen, Allan looked at his paper in the orange glow from the lantern set back in the desk's right-hand corner. His pen cast a forbidding line of shadow slanting across the page, echoing the inky darkness crouching in the edges of the lantern's struggling glow. The only other illumination came from a lurid moonlight filtered through thin branches and clouds, casting its bone-pale glow onto the pine floorboards.
            Allan unfolded another page, this one crowded with ranks of letters in tight formation from left to right. The lines of letters stepped into their divisions, in the shape of a story's outline: the loose, dry skeleton of a tale lay exposed beneath their feet, awaiting tendons, muscle and blushing skin. Allan reviewed the troops, all prepared to disembark, their task to form the tale of a young man returning home from Life Abroad to find his childhood friend a bride to-be, thus upsetting the apple cart of his life's plan, clarified  of course  by his very time away from her he loved best.
            Although the concept was a simple one, Allan thought it had potential. Besides, the public liked a good, simple romance. Perhaps this will be more saleable, he thought and began to write.
            
            They gazed at each other, lost in the rapture of love based so deeply within their hearts that they had never seen it before. "What about Roger?" she asked, knowing that the answer no longer mattered.
            
            This is good, he thought, pausing to raise the low light of the lantern. I'm almost done, and the happy ending is just falling into place. I hardly dare to think it, but  I may finish this story!
            As he thought this, a sinuous wind encircled the house, slipping through the walls to chill him. The papers and the lantern's flame trembled as the thin fingers of a great black willow rapped gently on Allan's window and wall like a stranger knocking on his chamber door. This was no stranger, however; the twisted, ancient thing was older than Allan, its branches rapping on his window since his childhood. Its thin, drawn fingers framed the bloated moon, whose eerie radiation now bathed the room directly. The great, jaundiced eye stared down unblinkingly at the author, who gazed up through his window's tiny frame with trepidation. Allan recalled himself and focused once more on the incomplete page before him. His pen flickered forth, words dancing out from its nib. In the author's eye gleamed the lantern's reflection  or was it a reflection? For while the lantern's spark shivered in the chill breeze, this burn was steady and true as the motion of its owner's pen, scratching out the rhythm of the willow's fingers.
            
            The frenzied writing ceased at last, the author leaned back with a slight sigh as if both exhausted and satisfied by his effort. He held a hand to his forehead, eyes closed and face flushed. I did it again, he thought. After all that  so near the end, to lose control again. His breath returning to its normal rhythms, he dared to look at the page before him. 
            His face soft as if caught between a smile and tears, he draped his loose cape over her shoulders. "Come, darling," he whispered. "Where I am to take you, one need never think of those left behind." 
            They stepped together into his carriage, her eyes wide with wonder as she touched it and felt, conveyed as if through her skin, the unearthly nature of the rails and reins, the wheelspokes. They took their seats within the car and his driver set the horses trotting. For a few yards, they kicked up dust along the roadway; then they raised their hooves and took to the air. She gaped, afraid but knowing that no harm would come to her by his hand. The New England woods disappeared, even the greatest pines shrinking to insignificance as they mounted the sky. Above them, the Milky Way drew near as if the stars themselves could be reached. A magnificent glow infused the carriage as they merged with the sky's glory.
            
            Allan crushed the page in his hand and hurled it at the window. "Damn you," he cried, "will you never leave me be? Shall I never finish a story in peace?" He pounded his desk in vain, cursing the foul muse that drove him.
            
            The next day, Allan sat on a florally patterned chair in a well-furnished parlor. Taking a measured sip of white wine from his crystal glass, he glanced at his host  a cultured man dressed in a light suit of the current fashion and wearing his pale hair with a heavy set of sideburns  who passed him a silver tray. 
            "Cucumber sandwich?"
            Allan took a sandwich between his fingers. "Thank you, Arthur."
            Arthur replaced the tray onto the lacquered cherry table that stood in the center of his ordered chamber. In a manner delicately balanced between somber and genial, he refilled their glasses. "How is the writing these days, my dear Mr. Clemm?"
            "Perfectly dreadful, my dear Mr. Mason," Allan sighed. "I had a perfect story in my pages; my hero returned home and reclaimed his love, I nearly had it tied together before"
            "Before?"
            "Before that blasted impulse came over me and I started writing like Edgar Poe  though the most recent was not so morbid as my many others, thank Heaven."
            Arthur's face assumed a long-suffering aspect of authoritative exasperation. "I'm not familiar with Mr. Poe's works, but I assume you're referring to your unhealthy penchant for the fantastic."
            "It's far from a 'penchant,' Arthur. This is more like a compulsion, a beast that lies waiting in the dark for the perfect moment, then leaps and takes ahold of me, screaming out through my quill."
            "How perfectly awful." Arthur grimaced at the vivid description. "I'm sure you know that you must curb this behavior if you wish to produce any writing fit for public consumption."
            "I know," Allan replied, "but how am I to do that? You know I do not wish to make my stories thus; but it is my nemesis, confronting me anew at every turn!"
            Arthur raised a critical brow. "Perhaps you could make some headway if you denied your darker side the outlet of the colorful metaphors you so enjoy. Every action you take to deny it nourishment will bring you closer to your goal; and believe me, Allan, you must take every opportunity to quash this uncivilized obsession if you intend to publish. There simply is no audience for fairy tales  no literate audience, at least."
            "It is true," Allan admitted, fidgeting with his cufflinks, "that I would not dream of submitting one of these corruptions of literature to any publisher. I've even tried rewriting the corrupted sections, but once my characters have gone down that road, nothing can recall their former life. My prodigal ink-blooded children simply lose their vitality when forced along the proper road."
            Arthur sighed and sipped his wine. "If only you would restrain this morbid impulse of yours, you might write something really worth reading. It's hard enough listening to your wild speech without seeing it appear in the refined world of print, like a surly foreigner among a genteel crowd."
            Allan hung his head, holding his wine with both hands between his arched knees. His hair was slightly unkempt after his sleepless night, and his clothing had a rumpled look as if, by mere proximity, it had taken on the aspect of his weariness. He scratched the back of his dark-haloed head and blinked bleary eyes. "I would drive it out," he said softly, "but I fear for what would remain."
            "Perhaps you require a rest from writing," suggested Arthur. "You might find that some time in an honest occupation would ground you somewhat, improve your disposition."
            "Perhaps it would," Allan replied, rising and vainly straightening his suit. "I shall consider it; in the meantime, however, I must be off. You have been a gracious host, as always."
            Arthur rose and shook his hand. "So dear a friend is always welcome to my counsel and my home," he said. "I hope soon to see you in better sorts."
            They parted and Allan made his way pensively from Arthur's gate. He walked the wheel-ruts, hands in his pockets and unshined shoes collecting dust. Some quarter-mile from Arthur's gate, he halted, confronted by a halloo. "Nathan?" he called out to the empty road.
            The reply came from above him and Allan turned to see his friend reclining in the fork of a great tree. "I had a hunch you'd be at Arthur's today," said Nathan, "so I thought I'd wait here for you." Nathan's lanky frame, dressed in a loose, tan jacket, fit into the branch like an elegant skeleton. His hair fell loosely across a face that seemed always to have a knowing smirk hidden just beneath its surface, infusing his body with a rakish energy. "So, Allan," said Nathan, unfolding and lowering his legs to the roadside, "how goes life for the quintessential American author?" 
            "I wouldn't know," replied Allan dryly, before continuing in another tone entirely. "I destroyed another story last night, Nathan."
            Leaning against his tree, Nathan shook his head. "You mean, finished another story."
            "Yes, it is finished! Ended! Never again shall it see the rosy-fingered dawn! Nathan, you've read these abominations of mine. You know just as well as I that they have no future, no potential. At best, they are faery tales; at worst, expeditions into macabre realms no healthy mind need ever see."
            "So instead, you would write  what?"
            "Something saleable; something worth reading, worth writing! I want to write as others do: a tale, set in our real world, of characters who might live therein, not citizens of some airy demesne beyond the stars!"
            "Why is that more desirable than what you write today?"
            "People will read such stories; they are worth publishing."
            "If you never finish such stories, how can they be worth publishing?"
            "That is precisely why I must excise this malignant instinct!"
            "Why do you write?"
            "Why  to earn a living, I suppose. Why do you ask?"
            "You choose to write rather than become a fisherman or a carpenter, though you face such difficulty. Why is that?"
            "I suppose it is because I enjoy my craft. I would not be happy, thus separated from it."
            "So at its heart, then, your writing  as opposed to working otherwise  is for yourself?"
            "Yes, I suppose one could see it thus. But really, Nathan, your queer habits of conversation have reached a new level."
            Ignoring the statement, Nathan continued. "Your writing is for you, Allan, not for the publishers or some imagined audience. Since you seem unable to write 'normally,' why not embrace your tales as they are, leave behind the one unhappiness in the art you admit is a source of pleasure? Your stories strike a chord with the deepest, most ancient stories of mankind, the tales basic to humanity. Tell them, and they will create an audience. You need not pander to what you imagine their wants are; speak, and they shall listen."
            
            Allan crouched over his desk once more, pen in hand and mind blank. He contemplated a story, an outline he had laboriously constructed some time ago. He had filled his pen and raised it, the nib descending towards the paper, before the sound came: the gentle, persistent tapping of the gnarled, primeval willow touching the window with long, insistent fingers. 
            His eyes awoke with a passionate, determined flame, though the only light came from the glutted moon. Allan filled page after page, the words escaping from his mind onto the paper. Where before they had marched in regiments, practiced in ranks and followed their leaders' commands, the words now escaped in their true forms, unhindered by any stricture. He continued long into the night, until the eldritch orb had sunk into the waiting hands of the willow, raised perpetually skyward. 
            
            Arthur looked up from the results of a nights frenzied labors and looked Allan in the eye.
            "What is this?" he queried, indicating the pages he held in his left hand.
            "I decided that since I wasn't having much success with more  traditional  stories, I might see what sort of work I produced if I let my imagination go freely," Allan replied, somewhat less self-assured than he had been the previous night. 
            "What in G-d's name could have possessed you to do such a thing," cried Arthur, nearly raising his voice. "After all I said the day before, why have you abandoned centuries of literary progress for some self-indulgent fantasy?" He shook the papers at Allan, raising them like a belt above the head of a disobedient son. "This is nothing but a glorified Grimm's tale, a miscarried child of Stoker, a creation less fit to be published than to be told around an open fire at the hovel of some peasant!" He spoke the last word with such heavy intonation that Allan shrank back before the physical wave of sound emanating from Arthur's throat. "Do you hate the modern system of literature? Do you personally despise the works the Enlightenment or the progress made since Shakespeare??"
            For a moment, Allan could hardly do more than shake his head. "No, of course not I "
            "Then why," Arthur barreled on, "do you disregard them all and return to this superstitious babble, this morbid, paganistic drivel? Why do you disregard my warnings, my careful advice given in the best of friendship and designed only to save you from sinking into this very type of corruption, this literary debauchery?" He glared at Allan, eyes impaling him and demanding a response.
            "Could you write decent tales with that willow at your window?" Allan cried out at last, stepping forward and casting his arms open, confronting Arthur with this demanding, pleading interrogation. "Its twigs rap constantly against the wall, the wind always demanding my attention. How could any writer accommodate the edicts of popular literature with the very forces of nature knocking upon his door?"
            Arthur looked down his nose at the distraught author, viewing his complaint with pure disdain scantily concealed by the veneer of politeness that animated the construct that was Arthur Mason. "A tree? A tree forced you to write this, my dear Mr. Clemm? I must admit, this seems far-fetched, even by your standards  even your Nathan might have difficulty believing you."
            "You don't know what this is like," said Allan, shaking his head. "Nathan would understand completely." Even as he said it, Allan prayed that his statement was true. 
            "Very well," said Arthur; "then take your story to that hedonist and let him defend you when no civilized publisher will approach you. If you insist on abandoning me, I shall not hold you." With that, he tossed the papers at Allan and left the room.
            Stunned, Allan slowly gathered up the pages and placed them in order. He then turned and left through the door opposite that Arthur had taken, making his way past his host's doorman without assistance and setting off on foot towards Nathan's residence, several miles away.
            
            Nathan read the package of words in silence, his only motions the steady progress of his eyes and occasional replacement of pages. Allan sat nervously across from him in a chair Nathan had probably upholstered himself, a patchwork design of fabric containing easily more stuffing than any other furniture item of the period. At long last, Nathan reached the end and set down his reading on the table between them. Allan leaned forward unconsciously.
            "It's the best story you've ever written."
            Allan exhaled and leaned back into the chair, his face relaxing in imitation of his thoughts. "So," he asked, "you don't think it's a waste of ink and paper, a futile expedition into morbidity or literary debauchery?"
            "Heavens, no," said Nathan, aghast. "This is one of the strongest works I've read in ages. It speaks to the deepest storyteller's instinct within us all, yet is entirely original. My dear friend, you have done it. Oh, they may rail against you at first; they may decry you as a heathen or a literary savage; but while those in power say such things, others will read your tales and see their true worth. Believe me when I say that you will be read a century from now."
            Allan, though dubious as to that possibility, felt some temptation from the compliment; mainly, it granted him the encouragement he still needed. Nathan promised to show the story to a printer he knew and Allan left it with him, then walked home under the spreading maples with a smile lingering on his face. He felt now that perhaps Nathan was right; although the man was somewhat peculiar, he had both an unimpeachable honesty and a certain propensity for insight. Certainly, it was undeniable that the stories had an originality to them. His mind's strangest fruit had ripened at last, and he found the taste less bitter than expected. These thoughts and others like them filled his head as he walked the long road home.
            It was evening, and the sky burned orange in the west when he neared home at last. Passionate, fiery colors filled the western sky before him, though the sun itself had reached the trees and a few dark clouds circled overhead. As Allan drew closer, he distinguished a new cloud, a pillar rising directly ahead; a road of smoke ascended in the west, its source hidden by the very hillock that concealed his house from the traveler until one had nearly reached its door.
            Allan's thoughts fled as one, scattering on the breeze that scattered the warning plume. He ran the last distance, crested the hill puffing to reveal Arthur below, walking to the carriage parked before Allan's house as two laborers wrapped a great saw in oilcloths and loaded it onto the vehicle's roof. Arthur paused in the door, looking up at Allan for a moment; then he turned and shut the door behind him. The driver snapped the reins and set the horses on. As they trotted forth, Allan's eyes remained trapped by the carriage, following it up the hillock and past himself. The heavy curtains had been drawn across its windows. He watched as the carriage drew still more distant, the horses' hooves still kicking up dust along the roadway.
            When they had gone, he remained, stunned, until the scent of woodsmoke recalled him to himself. He turned to regard the pillar still rising behind his house and ran to see what had been done.
            Rounding the corner, he saw a great bonfire. A mass of flaming wood stood before him, heat singeing him and sparks flying too close to his house. It was a moment before he realized what else had changed: near the wall, beneath his window, was a stump with black and ancient bark.
            In a thoughtless panic, Allan flew to the stream that ran by his house and began frantically throwing handfuls of water onto the pyre. His thoughts were not of the act's futility, nor even of the nights spent tormented by the twisted thing; instead, all that filled his mind was the tree's constant presence in his life, growing with him and beside him, its persistent reminders that he had higher, truer things to write, the simple beauty of the great black tree for its own sake. His handfuls could do nothing to quench the hewn, burning logs, but when the night sky grew dark above him and the fire dwindled to black ashes, tears threatened to spill forth and extinguish the final embers.
            But he did not weep. Instead, he bethought himself of the loss of the tree; considered also Arthur's motivation and whether some good might not come of this, after all. Leaving the circle of ashes, he stood and turned towards the woods, in which it was his habit to walk when in a pensive mood. He stepped slowly beneath the branches, a gust of wind stirring up the ashes behind him in a great, swirling eddy, a burning brand that rose up and dispersed on the winds as though it were the willow's last breath. 
            Allan wandered beneath the trees for a time, thoughts drifting through his mind like great banks of fog, strangely beautiful but impossible to penetrate. He considered Arthur's intervention; considered that it might be better to accept the fog and continue as his lifelong friend had suggested, to write stories that others would read; for after all, what purpose writing if not to be read? And without that torturous willow, he might be free to write whatever he saw fit. Indeed, if he still could not, he could at any time follow Arthur's advice and seek a profession more grounded in reality. Perhaps that would be more healthy for his mind. He found himself along the bank of a low, wide stream and allowed himself to follow its current. As it turned to the deeper woods, elder giants rose above him: a beech, smooth bark a gray-green pennant hoisted on a slope and standing out between the dark, cracked trunks of the nearer trees; great pines, a few magnificent specimens still bearing the three-stroke symbol of the British King; a towering black birch, leaves impossibly high above him. As the stream wound its way through the largest pines, grown so great as to eclipse that feature of the landscape they had once crowded about for sweet water as saplings, Allan continued, slowing his pace to climb across the toes of the slumbering giants. There was hardly enough room for his slim frame between the trunks that overshadowed any fleeting mortal trespass.
            Emerging from between the antediluvian trunks, Allan set his feet softly down onto the carpet of needles and stopped. Before him, roots imbibing the sweet water of the stream, grew a stand of black willows. Fallen trunks lay rotting across the rivulet; the living elders oversaw the grove while younger trees, still small and not yet as knotted and gnarled as their forefathers, sprang up where branches reached the ground. Though the elders' trunks fell and died, their children, first roots grown from the very branches that now lay dead, continued unabated, a continuous line from the most ancient of their ancestors.
            Allan stumbled forward, jaw slightly slack, until his outstretched hands encountered the rough bark of a twisted, three-trunked willow whose waists were each larger than Allan himself. Collapsing at its base, Allan wrapped his arms around the stoic tree and let forth a moan, a cry of purest agony that escaped him as the first tears seeped from the corners of his eyes and slid down his cheeks, falling to the ground and seeping though the fallen leaves and needles to join the water of the stream, flowing through the ground beneath them.
         
      
   
   
